Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

     NFPA

 72®

      USE ONLY National Fire Alarm
      L and Signaling Code®
  FOR INDIVIDUA {C56A204D19C7-64F7-4C88-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}

                                                                         Customer ID

                                                         35355929

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       See ALERT
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                   IMPORTANT NOTICES AND DISCLAIMERS CONCERNING NFPA® STANDARDS

                           NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY CONCERNING THE USE OF NFPA STANDARDS

                       NFPA® codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides ("NFPA Standards"), of which the document
                    contained herein is one, are developed through a consensus standards development process approved by
                    the American National Standards Institute. This process brings together volunteers representing varied
                    viewpoints and interests to achieve consensus on fire and other safety issues. While the NFPA administers
                    the process and establishes rules to promote fairness in the development of consensus, it does not
                    independently test, evaluate, or verify the accuracy of any information or the soundness of any judgments
                    contained in NFPA Standards.

                       The NFPA disclaims liability for any personal injury, property, or other damages of any nature
                    whatsoever, whether special, indirect, consequential or compensatory, directly or indirectly resulting from
                    the publication, use of, or reliance on NFPA Standards. The NFPA also makes no guaranty or warranty as
                    to the accuracy or completeness of any information published herein.

                       In issuing and making NFPA Standards available, the NFPA is not undertaking to render professional or

    Y other services for or on behalf of any person or entity. Nor is the NFPA undertaking to perform any duty
    L owed by any person or entity to someone else. Anyone using this document should rely on his or her own

                    independent judgment or, as appropriate, seek the advice of a competent professional in determining the

    N exercise of reasonable care in any given circumstances.
    O The NFPA has no power, nor does it undertake, to police or enforce compliance with the contents of

                    NFPA Standards. Nor does the NFPA list, certify, test, or inspect products, designs, or installations for
                    compliance with this document. Any certification or other statement of compliance with the requirements

    E of this document shall not be attributable to the NFPA and is solely the responsibility of the certifier or
    S maker of the statement.

      U REVISION SYMBOLS IDENTIFYING CHANGES FROM THE PREVIOUS EDITION
     L Text revisions are shaded. A  before a section number indicates that words within that section were
    A deleted and a  to the left of a table or figure number indicates a revision to an existing table or figure.

                        When a chapter was heavily revised, the entire chapter is marked throughout with the  symbol. Where

  {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U one or more sections were deleted, a · is placed between the remaining sections. Chapters, annexes,
    ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} sections, figures, and tables that are new are indicated with an N.

                          Note that these indicators are a guide. Rearrangement of sections may not be captured in the markup,
                        but users can view complete revision details in the First and Second Draft Reports located in the archived

    IV revision information section of each code at www.nfpa.org/docinfo. Any subsequent changes from the

                        NFPA Technical Meeting, Tentative Interim Amendments, and Errata are also located there.

        IND See ALERT
  FORALERT: THIS STANDARD HAS BEEN MODIFIED BY A TIA OR ERRATA

                           Users of NFPA codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides ("NFPA Standards") should
                        be aware that NFPA Standards may be amended from time to time through the issuance of a Tentative
                        Interim Amendment (TIA) or corrected by Errata. An official NFPA Standard at any point in time consists
                        of the current edition of the document together with any TIAs and Errata then in effect.

                           To determine whether an NFPA Standard has been amended through the issuance of TIAs or corrected
                        by Errata, go to www.nfpa.org/docinfo to choose from the list of NFPA Standards or use the search feature
                        to select the NFPA Standard number (e.g., NFPA 13). The document information page provides up-to-
                        date document-specific information as well as postings of all existing TIAs and Errata. It also includes the
                        option to register for an "Alert" feature to receive an automatic email notification when new updates and
                        other information are posted regarding the document.

                       ISBN: 978-145592057-0 (PDF)
                       ISBN: 978-145592058-7 (eBook)
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

              ADDITIONAL IMPORTANT NOTICES AND DISCLAIMERS CONCERNING NFPA® STANDARDS

             Updating of NFPA Standards
                   Users of NFPA codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides ("NFPA Standards") should be aware that these

               documents may be superseded at any time by the issuance of a new edition, may be amended with the issuance of Tentative
               Interim Amendments (TIAs), or be corrected by Errata. It is intended that through regular revisions and amendments,
               participants in the NFPA standards development process consider the then-current and available information on incidents,
               materials, technologies, innovations, and methods as these develop over time and that NFPA Standards reflect this
               consideration. Therefore, any previous edition of this document no longer represents the current NFPA Standard on the
               subject matter addressed. NFPA encourages the use of the most current edition of any NFPA Standard [as it may be amended
               by TIA(s) or Errata] to take advantage of current experience and understanding. An official NFPA Standard at any point in
               time consists of the current edition of the document, including any issued TIAs and Errata then in effect.

                   To determine whether an NFPA Standard has been amended through the issuance of TIAs or corrected by Errata, visit the
               "Codes & Standards" section at www.nfpa.org.
             Interpretations of NFPA Standards

                   A statement, written or oral, that is not processed in accordance with Section 6 of the Regulations Governing the

  Y Development of NFPA Standards shall not be considered the official position of NFPA or any of its Committees and shall not
  L be considered to be, nor be relied upon as, a Formal Interpretation.

             Patents

   N The NFPA does not take any position with respect to the validity of any patent rights referenced in, related to, or asserted in
  O connection with an NFPA Standard. The users of NFPA Standards bear the sole responsibility for determining the validity of

               any such patent rights, as well as the risk of infringement of such rights, and the NFPA disclaims liability for the infringement
               of any patent resulting from the use of or reliance on NFPA Standards.

   E NFPA adheres to the policy of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) regarding the inclusion of patents in
  S American National Standards ("the ANSI Patent Policy"), and hereby gives the following notice pursuant to that policy:
   U NOTICE: The user's attention is called to the possibility that compliance with an NFPA Standard may require use of an

               invention covered by patent rights. NFPA takes no position as to the validity of any such patent rights or as to whether such
               patent rights constitute or include essential patent claims under the ANSI Patent Policy. If, in connection with the ANSI Patent

  L Policy, a patent holder has filed a statement of willingness to grant licenses under these rights on reasonable and

               nondiscriminatory terms and conditions to applicants desiring to obtain such a license, copies of such filed statements can be

  A obtained, on request, from NFPA. For further information, contact the NFPA at the address listed below.
  {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Law and Regulations
   ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Users of NFPA Standards should consult applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. NFPA does not, by the

               publication of its codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides, intend to urge action that is not in compliance with
               applicable laws, and these documents may not be construed as doing so.

  IV Copyrights
                   NFPA Standards are copyrighted. They are made available for a wide variety of both public and private uses. These include

  D both use, by reference, in laws and regulations, and use in private self-regulation, standardization, and the promotion of safe

               practices and methods. By making these documents available for use and adoption by public authorities and private users, the

  IN NFPA does not waive any rights in copyright to these documents.
                   Use of NFPA Standards for regulatory purposes should be accomplished through adoption by reference. The term

  R "adoption by reference" means the citing of title, edition, and publishing information only. Any deletions, additions, and

               changes desired by the adopting authority should be noted separately in the adopting instrument. In order to assist NFPA in
               following the uses made of its documents, adopting authorities are requested to notify the NFPA (Attention: Secretary,

  O Standards Council) in writing of such use. For technical assistance and questions concerning adoption of NFPA Standards,
  Fcontact NFPA at the address below.

             For Further Information
                   All questions or other communications relating to NFPA Standards and all requests for information on NFPA procedures

               governing its codes and standards development process, including information on the procedures for requesting Formal
               Interpretations, for proposing Tentative Interim Amendments, and for proposing revisions to NFPA standards during regular
               revision cycles, should be sent to NFPA headquarters, addressed to the attention of the Secretary, Standards Council, NFPA, 1
               Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9101; email: stds_admin@nfpa.org.

                   For more information about NFPA, visit the NFPA website at www.nfpa.org. All NFPA codes and standards can be viewed at
               no cost at www.nfpa.org/docinfo.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                                                                                                                                           72-1

                                                 Copyright © 2018 National Fire Protection Association®. All Rights Reserved.

                                                                                             NFPA 72®

                                                National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code®

                                                                                           2019 Edition
                                     This edition of NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code, was prepared by the Technical
                                 Committees on Fundamentals of Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Testing and Maintenance of Fire
                                 Alarm and Signaling Systems, Initiating Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Notification
                                 Appliances for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Protected Premises Fire Alarm and Signaling

      Y Systems, Emergency Communication Systems, Supervising Station Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems,

                                 Public Emergency Reporting Systems, and Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms and Household

      L Signaling Systems, released by the Correlating Committee on Signaling Systems for the Protection of

                                 Life and Property, and acted on by NFPA at its June Association Technical Meeting held June 11­14,

      N 2018, in Las Vegas, NV. It was issued by the Standards Council on August 14, 2018, with an effective

                                 date of September 3, 2018, and supersedes all previous editions.

      O This document has been amended by one or more Tentative Interim Amendments (TIAs) and/or

                                 Errata. See "Codes & Standards" at www.nfpa.org for more information.

      E This edition of NFPA 72 was approved as an American National Standard on September 3, 2018.
              S Origin and Development of NFPA 72

      U The development of NFPA's signaling standards dates back to 1898 with the appointment of the
      L Committee on Thermo-Electric Fire Alarms. The 1905 edition of NBFU 71A, Rules and Requirements of

                                 the National Board of Fire Underwriters for the Construction, Installation, and Use of Signaling Systems Used for

      A the Transmission of Signals Affecting the Fire Hazard as Recommended by the National Fire Protection

                                 Association, and related documents dating back to 1903 were among the first of numerous signaling

  {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U standards published in conjunction with the National Fire Protection Association. The descendants
            8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} of these earlier standards were consolidated into the National Fire Alarm Code, NFPA 72.
      ID The first edition of the National Fire Alarm Code, published in 1993, was a consolidation of the 1989
                                 edition of NFPA 71, Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use of Signaling Systems for Central
      IV Station Service; the 1990 edition of NFPA 72, Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use of
                                 Protective Signaling Systems; the 1990 edition of NFPA 72E, Standard on Automatic Fire Detectors; the 1989
                                 edition of NFPA 72G, Guide for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use of Notification Appliances for
      D Protective Signaling Systems; the 1988 edition of NFPA 72H, Guide for Testing Procedures for Local, Auxiliary,
                                 Remote Station, and Proprietary Protective Signaling Systems; and the 1989 edition of NFPA 74, Standard for
      IN the Installation, Maintenance, and Use of Household Fire Warning Equipment. Many of the requirements of
                                 these standards were identical or very similar. The recommendations that were taken from the guides
                                 (NFPA 72G and NFPA 72H) were changed to mandatory requirements.
      RThe 1996 edition of NFPA 72 incorporated many changes of a technical nature. These changes
                                 related to the Americans with Disabilities Act, software testing, fire modeling, and communications.
    O The 1999 edition represented a major change in code content and organization. The chapters

  F were arranged to facilitate user friendliness and provide a logical structure. A new chapter on public
                                 fire reporting was added, and many technical revisions were made. Annex B (formerly Appendix B)
                                 was streamlined to facilitate ease of use, many unenforceable terms were removed, and Chapter 3
                                 was reorganized to facilitate a more logical approach.
                                     The 2002 edition reflected an extensive editorial revision of the Code to comply with the latest
                                 edition of the Manual of Style for NFPA Technical Committee Documents. These revisions included the
                                 addition of three administrative chapters at the beginning of the Code: Administration, Referenced
                                 Publications, and Definitions. Eight technical chapters followed the administrative chapters in the
                                 same sequence as in the 1999 edition. Other editorial revisions included the breakout of paragraphs
                                 with multiple requirements into individually numbered paragraphs for each requirement, the
                                 minimization of use of exceptions, the use of consistent headings for sections and section
                                 subdivisions, and reorganization to limit paragraph numbering to six digits.

                       NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code, NFPA and National Fire Protection Association are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection
                                                                                                  Association, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-2          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

     The 2002 edition contained a number of technical revisions throughout the Code, including the following:
     (1) A major revision of the power supply requirements
     (2) A new requirement addressing impairments to fire alarm systems
     (3) Additional requirements concerning the review and approval of performance-based detection system designs
     (4) Revision of the rules for system survivability from attack by fire
     (5) The introduction of rules for an alternate approach for audible signaling
     (6) The addition of requirements to address performance-based designs for visible signaling
     (7) The relocation of testing and maintenance requirements for single- and multiple-station alarms and household fire

            alarm systems to the testing and maintenance chapter
     (8) Revisions to re-establish the prescriptive rules for household fire-warning equipment from the 1996 edition of the

            Code
     The 2007 edition contained several technical revisions including many to accommodate new technology and to take
 advantage of new research. Changes were made to better address the integration of mass notification systems and other systems
 with fire alarm systems. Revisions were also made in several areas of the Code for clarity and to enhance its usability.

 Y Some of the more significant revisions in the 2007 edition addressed protection of fire alarm control units, personnel
L qualifications, heat detector response time, smoke detector spacing, smoke detection in ducts, detectors that use multiple

 sensing inputs, video image smoke and flame detection, synchronization of visible notification appliances, exit marking

N audible notification appliances, tactile notification appliances, different types of protected premises fire alarm systems, and in-

 building enhancement systems for fire fighter radio communications. The 2007 edition also included significant changes to

O the requirements for smoke alarms in residential applications, revisions to require the interconnection of smoke alarms for

 existing occupancies, revisions to require additional smoke alarms for larger dwelling units, and revisions to allow voice
 messages to be included as a part of the smoke alarm notification signal.

 E Revisions in the 2007 edition to enhance and clarify the Code included those that address suppression system inputs to the
S fire alarm system, emergency/voice alarm communications systems, fire alarm system interface with elevator systems, and the

 means to indicate central station service. In addition, a complete revision of the Record of Completion Form along with

U examples of filled-out forms were provided.
     The 2007 edition also included the addition of two new annexes -- one to provide guidance for the design of mass

L notification systems and one to replace previous annex material for the design of fire service interfaces with a separate industry

 standard.

 A The 2010 edition of the Code presented a major change in the scope and organization of the document. This was reflected
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U in the new title, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code. The broader scope of the Code included emergency communications

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} systems in addition to the traditional scope of fire alarm systems. A new chapter on emergency communications systems (ECS)

ID was added to provide requirements for a variety of systems used for communication of information in various emergency

 situations. The ECS chapter included new systems such as in-building mass notification systems, wide area mass notification
 systems, distributed recipient mass notifications systems, two-way radio communications enhancement systems, and area of

IV refuge emergency communications systems. The ECS chapter also included two systems formerly in the chapter on protected

 premises fire alarm systems: (in-building fire) emergency voice/alarm communications systems and two-way in-building wired

D (telephone) emergency services communication systems.
     Two other new chapters were added in the 2010 edition. The new chapter on circuits and pathways included requirements

IN and information formerly from the chapters on fundamentals of fire alarm systems and from the chapter on protected

 premises fire alarm systems. This new chapter provided circuit and pathway performance (class) designations and pathway
 survivability level designations as well as general wiring requirements presented in a format that allowed use by any type of

R system covered in the Code. The new chapter on emergency control functions and interfaces included requirements and

 information formerly contained in the chapter of protected premises fire alarm systems. In this chapter the term fire safety

O function generally was replaced with the term emergency control function to reflect the potentially broader application beyond just

 fire alarm systems. This new chapter also included new provisions for first-responder-use elevators and elevators for occupant-

Fcontrolled evacuation.
     The 2010 edition was reorganized substantially to accommodate the new chapters in a logical order with reserved chapter
 numbers included to minimize the potential for further renumbering in the future. The overall organization included
 administrative chapters, support chapters, and system chapters as well as numerous annexes for usability.

     Significant revisions were also made throughout the 2010 edition to reflect the broader application of the Code to
 emergency communication systems. These included revisions in the chapter on fundamentals to address power supply
 requirements, signal priorities, signal distinction and documentation requirements; revisions to the protected premises
 chapter to better accommodate non­fire alarm systems in combination systems; revisions to the supervising station chapter and
 public emergency reporting system chapter to allow their use for emergency communications systems; and revisions to the
 testing and maintenance chapter to incorporate requirements for the inspection, testing, and maintenance of mass
 notification systems and two-way radio communications enhancement systems.

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ORIGIN & DEVELOPMENT  72-3

           In addition to the content of the new chapters, the 2010 edition included significant technical changes. These included new
       requirements for signaling to the deaf and hard of hearing, new requirements and guidance for the design, installation, and
       testing of voice communications systems to ensure voice intelligibility, and extensive revision of requirements for the
       installation of smoke detectors in both level and sloped joist and beam ceiling applications.

           Revisions to the supervising station chapter in the 2010 edition included the retirement of four legacy transmission
       technologies no longer being installed: active multiplex transmission systems, McCulloh systems, directly connected noncoded
       systems, and private microwave systems. The subsection on Other Transmission Technologies was relocated to become the
       default subsection for supervising stations communications methods.

           Modifications in the 2010 edition to the chapter on single- and multiple-station alarms and household fire alarms systems
       included new provisions to address the interconnection of smoke alarms using wireless technology, new provisions for signaling
       to those with hearing loss, and new requirements and guidance for the placement of smoke alarms and smoke detectors.

           The 2010 edition included two new guidance annexes, Annex C on system performance and design and Annex D on
       speech intelligibility.

  Y The 2013 edition of the Code was built on the organizational changes made in the 2010 edition. A new Chapter 7,
 L Documentation, was added to improve the usability of the document and provided a central location for all the documentation

       requirements of the Code. In some cases, the documentation provisions were contained directly in the new chapter. In other

 N cases, references were provided to the locations of documentation requirements contained in other chapters. As an example,

       the new chapter contained the minimum documentation requirements that applied to any system covered by the Code, while
       additional document requirements that might apply from other parts of the Code or from other governing laws, codes, or

 O standards were listed with an appropriate reference. The Record of Completion and Record of Inspection, Testing, and

       Maintenance forms were included at the end of the chapter and were completely revised to be easier to use with a basic form

 E for straightforward systems and supplemental forms for more complex systems.
  S Chapter 10, Fundamentals, was reorganized for the 2013 edition to provide a more user-friendly flow of requirements. In

       addition, requirements for circuit monitoring found in the previous edition of Chapter 10 were relocated to Chapter 12,

 U Circuits and Pathways, a more logical location.
           Extensive usability changes also were made in the inspection and testing tables of Chapter 14, Inspection, Testing, and

 L Maintenance. The visual inspection table was updated, adding new inspection methods for each component along with the

       inspection frequency. The test methods and test frequency tables were combined into a single table so that the test method

 A appeared along with the test frequency for each component. The component listings in both tables were reorganized and

       coordinated so that components and equipment were easier to find.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} The 2013 edition of the Code also included many technical updates. Among those updates were changes in Chapter 10
 ID requiring supervising station operators and fire alarm system service providers to report to the authority having jurisdiction

       certain conditions of system impairment. Requirements for inspection, testing, and service personnel qualifications were
       updated to better reflect the level of qualification needed for each type of activity.

  IV Changes were also made in Chapter 18, Notification Appliances, requiring documentation of the locations that require

       audible notification appliances as well as documentation of the audibility levels that must be produced. Area of coverage

 D requirements were added for visible notification appliances. Changes were made in Chapter 21, Emergency Control Function

       Interfaces, to address requirements for elevator recall when sprinklers are installed in elevator pits. The requirements for

 IN occupant evacuation elevators were completely revised to coordinate with changes made in ASME A17.1/B44, Safety Code for

       Elevators and Escalators. Changes were made in Chapter 24, Emergency Communications Systems, to address the use of
       microphones and of textual and graphical visible notification appliances for primary or supplemental notification, and to
       update the requirements for emergency command centers. Changes were made in Chapter 26, Supervising Station Alarm

 R Systems, to address alarm signal verification, alarm signal content, and restoration of signals. Those changes were made in part

       to help emergency responders better manage issues related to unwanted alarms. In addition, new definitions for unwanted

 Oalarms were added to more precisely identify the sources of those alarms. Changes were also made to update the
Fcommunications methods addressed in Chapter 26. Among them were changes to the supervision interval requirements for

       communications paths and changes to the types of transmission means that can be used for the second channel of a digital
       alarm communicator transmitter (DACT). Changes were made in Chapter 29, Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms and
       Household Fire Alarm Systems, to address the connection of sprinkler waterflow switches to multiple-station alarms and to add
       new requirements addressing the smoke alarm resistance to common nuisance sources.

           The 2016 edition made many changes relative to documentation. Chapter 7 revised and added items to the minimum
       documentation, documentation for new emergency communications systems, and software documentation requirements; and
       addressed review of electronic documentation media formats. Requirements for documentation of qualifications for the system
       designer and personnel who program systems were more clearly addressed while providing for the allowance for system design
       trainees. New criteria were added for plans examiners and inspectors.

                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-4          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

     Perhaps the most significant changes to the Code pertained to wiring. The 2016 edition added Class N, which addressed
 Ethernet infrastructures for alarm and signaling systems, and pathway performance and installation criteria were provided.
 Class A and Class X pathway separation requirements were revised to address emergency control function interface devices
 controlled by the fire alarm system on those circuits. Level 2 and Level 3 pathway survivability requirements were revised,
 which provided flexibility of use and addressed other fire-resistive methods.

     The 2016 edition of the Code added language relative to recalled equipment observed during inspection and testing and
 clarified the intent of periodic visual inspections relative to building or other changes that could affect the performance of the
 system. With the exception of reference and requirements pertaining to survivability, requirements for the design, installation,
 testing, and maintenance of in-building emergency radio communications enhancement systems were relocated to NFPA 1221,
 Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use of Emergency Services Communications Systems.

     Chapter 17 revised the requirements for total coverage and expanded its annex language to address general consideration
 for elevator shafts and enclosed stairways. The requirements for placement of smoke detectors used for door release were also
 revised to provide additional flexibility in locating detectors.

     Chapter 24 was restructured, providing greater user friendliness while expanding the section on risk analysis. Emphasis was

Y placed on the importance of effective message development. Annex G, Guidelines for Emergency Communication Strategies
L for Buildings and Campuses, based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology and Fire Protection Research

 Foundation research, was added to the 2016 edition.

 N Language was changed in Chapter 26 to require that when multiple communication paths are used for performance-based

 technologies or the two transmission means for a digital alarm communicator transmitter they be arranged to avoid a single

O point of failure.

     Chapter 29 added requirements pertaining to remote resetting and silencing of a fire alarm control unit from other than

E the protected premises for a minimum of 4 minutes from the initial activation of the fire alarm signal. Smart phones and
S Internet access to almost any device made remote access to residential equipment possible. The ability to establish remote

 access to a fire alarm system was addressed. Also, a new requirement established that, where a communication or transmission

U means other than DACT is used, all equipment necessary to transmit an alarm signal must be provided with a minimum of 24

 hours of secondary power capacity.

 L The 2019 edition reflects a number of changes. The requirements for fire service access elevators and occupant evacuation

 elevators (OEE) were completely revised to coordinate with changes made in ASME A17.1/CSA B44. The requirements for

A occupant evacuation operation (OEO) are revised extensively. Annex text is added for clarification, as is Figure A.21.6,

 Simplified Occupant Evacuation Operation (OEO) (elevator system interface with the building fire alarm system based on

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ASME A17.1, Section 2.27.11; and NFPA 72, Section 21.6). In addition to the requirements for area of refuge (area of rescue

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} assistance), Chapter 24 is revised to include requirements for stairway communications systems, elevator landing

ID communications systems, and occupant evacuation elevator lobby communications systems. A review was accomplished and

 revisions made to ensure alignment of NFPA 72 with the Manual of Style for NFPA Technical Committee Documents. These editorial
 revisions include the breakout of paragraphs with multiple requirements into individually numbered paragraphs for each

IV requirement and the minimization of use of exceptions. For many years, when codes required visual (or visible) notification in

 addition to audible notification, strobe lights meeting the requirements of Chapter 18 were used. With newer LED products

D that can be used for fire alarm, the terms strobe, light, and visible are essentially changed to visual notification appliance. The terms

 speaker and high power speaker array (HPSA) are changed to loudspeaker and high power loudspeaker array (HPLA) for consistency.

 IN Perhaps the most significant change to the Code pertains to carbon monoxide. In August 2015, the Standards Council

 voted to relocate material that is in NFPA 720, Standard for the Installation of Carbon Monoxide (CO) Detection and Warning
 Equipment, to various chapters of NFPA 72. These requirements are essentially incorporated into Chapter 17 for carbon

R monoxide detectors; Chapter 14 for installation, testing, and maintenance; Chapter 29 for carbon monoxide alarms; and new

 Annex H. Chapter 29 is greatly expanded, and a significant amount of annex text has been added for explanation. NFPA 720 is

O to be withdrawn as the requirements are moved to NFPA 72.
FChapter 14, Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance, is greatly modified to incorporate valve-regulated lead-acid (VRLA)

 batteries. The inspection and testing requirements are revised in Tables 14.3.1 and 14.4.3.2. This also expands the annex
 language to address use and testing of these batteries. Several new terms are introduced, and these are defined in Chapter 3.

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        COMMITTEE PERSONNEL                                                             72-5

Correlating Committee on Signaling Systems for the Protection of Life and Property

                                                  Merton W. Bunker, Jr., Chair
                                          EYP Architecture & Engineering, VA [SE]

                                                    Richard J. Roux, Secretary
                                          National Fire Protection Association, MA

Douglas M. Aiken, Lakes Region Mutual Fire Aid, NH [U]            James M. Mundy, Jr., Asset Protection Associates, Ltd., NY [M]
    Rep. International Municipal Signal Association                   Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.

Andrew G. Berezowski, Honeywell Inc., CT [M]                      Lynn Nielson, City of Henderson, NV [E]
    Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association            Thomas F. Norton, Norel Service Company, Inc., MA [IM]

Art Black, Carmel Fire Protection Associates, CA [E]                  (VL to Document: 72)

Louis T. Fiore, L. T. Fiore, Inc., NJ [IM]
    Rep. Professional Alarm Services Organizations of North

America

Y Raymond A. Grill, Arup, DC [SE]
L Vic Humm, Vic Humm & Associates, TN [SE]

Peter A. Larrimer, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, PA [U]

N James Ludden, Bolivar City Fire Department, MO [E]
    Rep. International Association of Fire Chiefs

O Wayne D. Moore, JENSEN HUGHES, RI [SE]
                                                                  Thomas J. Parrish, Telgian Corporation, MI [U]
                                                                  Rodger Reiswig, Johnson Controls/Tyco/SimplexGrinnell, FL [M]
                                                                  Robert P. Schifiliti, R. P. Schifiliti Associates, Inc., MA [SE]
                                                                  Lawrence J. Shudak, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                                  Tom G. Smith, Oklahoma City, OK [IM]

                                                                      Rep. National Electrical Contractors Association
                                                                  Jeffery G. Van Keuren, UTC Climate, Controls & Security/Edwards,
                                                                  FL [M]
 E Daniel Besson, Leland Township Fire & Rescue, MI [E]
           (Alt. to James Ludden)                                 Alternates

 S Louis Chavez, UL LLC, IL [RT]
           (Alt. to Lawrence J. Shudak)

 U Daniel J. Gauvin, Johnson Controls/TYCO Fire Suppression &

       Building Products, MA [M]

 L (Alt. to Rodger Reiswig)

       Thomas P. Hammerberg, Jasper, GA [M]

 A (Alt. to James M. Mundy, Jr.)

       Kyle Krueger, National Electrical Contractors-Milwaukee Chapter,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U WI [IM]
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (Alt. to Tom G. Smith)
 ID Fred Leber, AML Encore Corporation, Canada [SE]
           (Alt. to Raymond A. Grill)
                                                                  David J. LeBlanc, JENSEN HUGHES, MA [SE]
                                                                      (Alt. to Wayne D. Moore)

                                                                  Maria B. Marks, Siemens Industry, Inc., MD [M]
                                                                      (Alt. to Andrew G. Berezowski)

                                                                  Morris L. Stoops, UTC Fire & Security/Edwards, KS [M]
                                                                      (Alt. to Jeffery G. Van Keuren)

                                                                  Mark J. Sylvester, Telgian Corporation, MA [U]
                                                                      (Alt. to Thomas J. Parrish)

                                                                  Frank L. Van Overmeiren, Fire Protection & Code Consultants,
                                                                  LLC, IN [SE]

                                                                      (Alt. to Vic Humm)

 IV Laurence J. Dallaire, Architect of the Capitol, DC [E]        Nonvoting
  D Rep. TC on Household Fire Alarm Systems
                                                                             Daniel J. O'Connor, JENSEN HUGHES/AON Fire Protection
        Manuelita E. David, JENSEN HUGHES/Aon, CA [SE]                       Engineering, IL [SE]

  IN Rep. TC on Fundamentals of Fire Alarm Systems                                Rep. TC on Initiating Devices for Fire Alarm Systems
                                                                             Warren E. Olsen, Fire Safety Consultants, Inc., IL [E]
        Daniel T. Gottuk, JENSEN HUGHES, MD [SE]
            Rep. TC on Carbon Monoxide Detection                                  Rep. TC on Supervising Station Fire Alarm Systems
                                                                             Jack Poole, Poole Fire Protection, Inc., KS [SE]
        William E. Koffel, Koffel Associates, Inc., MD [SE]
                                                                                  Rep. TC on Protected Premises Fire Alarm Systems
  R Rep. TC on Emergency Communication Systems                               Martin H. Reiss, JENSEN HUGHES, MA [SE]

        David O. Lowrey, City of Boulder Fire Rescue, CO [E]                      (Member Emeritus)
                                                                             Dean K. Wilson, JENSEN HUGHES, PA [SE]
 ORep. TC on Notification Appliances for Fire Alarm Systems
FLeo F. Martin, Jr., Martin Electrical Code Consultants, MA [SE]                  (Member Emeritus)

Rep. TC on Public Fire Reporting Systems

J. Jeffrey Moore, JENSEN HUGHES, OH [SE]
    Rep. TC on Testing & Maintenance of Fire Alarm Systems

Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison

                                                                                                                          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-6          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                     This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
                                     Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
                                     back of the document.
                                     NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
                                     the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
                                     Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
                                     installation, performance, maintenance, testing, and use of signaling components and
                                     signaling systems for the protection of life, property and mission continuity.

F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD4N7BLCY8}

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                     COMMITTEE PERSONNEL                                                                                  72-7

Technical Committee on Emergency Communication Systems (SIG-ECS)
                              (Chapter 24 and Annex G)

                                          William E. Koffel, Chair
                                     Koffel Associates, Inc., MD [SE]

                                                    Daniel P. Finnegan, Secretary
                                                  Siemens Industry, Inc., IL [M]
                                     Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association

Oded Aron, Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, NY [U]     James Mongeau, Space Age Electronics, Inc., MA [M]
                                                               Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.
Peter Binkley, Evax by Potter/ Potter Electric Signal, CT [M]
                                                               Wayne D. Moore, JENSEN HUGHES, RI [SE]
                                                               Michael Pallett, Telecor Inc., Canada [M]
                                                               Thomas J. Parrish, Telgian Corporation, MI [IM]
                                                               Joseph Ranaudo, AFA Protective Systems, Inc., NY [IM]
                                                               Rodger Reiswig, Johnson Controls/Tyco/SimplexGrinnell, FL [M]
                                                               Jeffrey A. Scott, FP&C Consultants, Inc., MO [SE]
                                                               Andrew J. Shear, Detech, Inc., NC [IM]
                                                               Aviv Siegel, AtHoc, Inc./BlackBerry, CA [M]
                                                               James P. Simpson, Electrical Training Alliance, MN [L]

                                                                   Rep. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
                                                               Robert Anthony Ulizio, Georgetown University, DC [U]
                                                               Andrew B. Woodward, Arup, MA [SE]
Thomas M. Chambers, Vector Security Inc., PA [IM]
    Rep. The Monitoring Association

Joe L. Collins, Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport, TX [U]

Y Joseph Dafin, U.S. General Services Administration, DC [U]

John C. Fannin III, SafePlace Corporation, DE [U]

L Charles E. Hahl, GHD Inc., VA [SE]
N Raymond N. Hansen, U.S. Department of the Air Force, FL [U]

Bryan Lawrence Hoskins, Oklahoma State University, OK [SE]

O Waymon Jackson, University of Texas at Austin, TX [U]

Scott Lacey, Lacey Fire Protection Engineering, AR [SE]
Minfei M. Leng, Bird Technologies Group, NY [M]

E Ted Leventhal, Marktek Inc., PA [M]
S Derek D. Mathews, UL LLC, IL [RT]
 U Matthew Batbouta, Aldie, VA [SE]
           (Alt. to Charles E. Hahl)

 L Christopher K. Constant, FP&C Consultants KC, LLC, MO [SE]
 A (Alt. to Jeffrey A. Scott)

       Laura E. Doyle, U.S. General Services Administration, DC [U]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (Alt. to Joseph Dafin)
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Aleksandr Frenkel, Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, NJ
 ID [U]
           (Alt. to Oded Aron)
       Raymond A. Grill, Arup, DC [SE]
 IV (Alt. to Andrew B. Woodward)
       Paul E. Mackins, U.S. Department of the Navy, CA [E]
           (Voting Alternate)
 D David Madole, University of Texas at Austin, TX [U]
           (Alt. to Waymon Jackson)
 IN Denise L. Pappas, Valcom, Inc., VA [M]
           (Alt. to Daniel P. Finnegan)
                                                               Alternates

                                                                          Larry D. Rietz, JENSEN HUGHES, CO [SE]
                                                                              (Alt. to Wayne D. Moore)

                                                                          Joseph Ripp, Interface Engineering, OR [M]
                                                                              (Alt. to James Mongeau)

                                                                          Peter D. Ryan, Tyco Fire Protection Products, MA [M]
                                                                              (Alt. to Rodger Reiswig)

                                                                          Daniel Joseph Somrack, Blackberry, CA [M]
                                                                              (Alt. to Aviv Siegel)

                                                                          Morris L. Stoops, UTC Fire & Security/Edwards, KS [M]
                                                                              (Alt. to Peter Binkley)

                                                                          Mark J. Sylvester, Telgian Corporation, MA [IM]
                                                                              (Alt. to Thomas J. Parrish)

                                                                          Richard B. Wagoner, DFW International Airport, TX [U]
                                                                              (Alt. to Joe L. Collins)

                                                                          Larry D. Watson, American Professional Services, Inc., OK [IM]
                                                                              (Alt. to Thomas M. Chambers)
   R This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
 O Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
F back of the document.
Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison

NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.

Committee Scope: This committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
risk analysis, design, application, installation, and performance of emergency
communications systems and their components. Public emergency services communications
systems covered by NFPA 1221 are outside the scope of this committee except where they
interface with in-building bi-directional amplifiers and where trouble and supervisory signals
are intended to be monitored by the building fire alarm system.

                                                                                                                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-8                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              Technical Committee on Fundamentals of Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems (SIG-FUN)
                                               (Chapters 1, 7, and 10 and Annex E)

                                                     Manuelita E. David, Chair
                                                JENSEN HUGHES/Aon, CA [SE]

                                                      Rep. JENSEN HUGHES

                                                Jeffrey S. Hancock, Secretary
                                                        Valero, TX [U]

Mark J. Aaby, Koffel Associates, Inc., MD [SE]  Walter J. Kessler, Jr., FM Approvals, MA [I]

Andrew G. Berezowski, Honeywell Inc., CT [M]    Fred Leber, AML Encore Corporation, Canada [SE]
    Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
Robert A. Bonifas, Alarm Detection Systems, Inc., IL [IM]

    Rep. The Monitoring Association

Y Shane M. Clary, Bay Alarm Company, CA [IM]

Daniel G. Decker, Safety Systems, Inc., MI [IM]

L James DiTaranto, Commercial Electrical Systems, FL [IM]

Tommy L. Farr, JATC of Southern Nevada, NV [L]

N Rep. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers

David W. Frable, U.S. General Services Administration, IL [U]

O Daniel J. Gauvin, Johnson Controls/TYCO Fire Suppression &

Building Products, MA [M]

E Kevin M. Green, Pyro-Comm Systems, Inc., CA [IM]

Kimberly A. Gruner, Fike Corporation, MO [M]

S Rep. Fire Suppression Systems Association

Scott Jacobs, ISC Electronic Systems, Inc., CA [IM]
                                                Richard A. Malady, Fire Fighter Sales & Service Company, PA [IM]
                                                    Rep. National Association of Fire Equipment Distributors

                                                Charlie G. McDaniel, Global Asset Protection Services, LLC, WV [I]
                                                    Rep. Global Asset Protection Services, LLC

                                                Jack McNamara, Bosch Security Systems, NY [M]
                                                James M. Mundy, Jr., Asset Protection Associates, Ltd., NY [M]

                                                    Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.
                                                Louis Nash, U.S. Coast Guard, DC [E]
                                                Thomas F. Norton, Norel Service Company, Inc., MA [IM]

                                                    Rep. U.S. Naval Historical Center
                                                Allan Sanedrin, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                Emily Troyanski, Intertek Testing Services, NJ [RT]
                                                Allyn J. Vaughn, NV5/JBA Consulting Engineers, NV [SE]
                                                Todd W. Warner, Brooks Equipment Company, Inc., NC [M]

                                                    Rep. Fire Equipment Manufacturers' Association
                                                U Alternates
L Bob Elliott, FM Approvals, MA [I]
    (Alt. to Walter J. Kessler, Jr.)

A Erinc Eslik, Intertek Testing Services, CT [RT]
    (Alt. to Emily Troyanski)

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Timothy C. Fritz, UL LLC, IL [RT]
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (Alt. to Allan Sanedrin)

ID John Houlihan, Fire Command Systems, Inc., MA [M]
    (Alt. to James M. Mundy, Jr.)

IV William E. Koffel, Koffel Associates, Inc., MD [SE]
    (Alt. to Mark J. Aaby)
Alan J. Kouchinsky, JENSEN HUGHES, MD [SE]

D (Alt. to Manuelita E. David)

Maria B. Marks, Siemens Industry, Inc., MD [M]

IN (Alt. to Andrew G. Berezowski)

John McCamish, NECA IBEW Electrical Training Center, OR [L]
    (Alt. to Tommy L. Farr)
                                                Nicholas Moriarty, NV5/JBA Consulting Engineers, NV [SE]
                                                    (Alt. to Allyn J. Vaughn)

                                                Rich Neves, Pyro-Comm Systems, Inc., CA [IM]
                                                    (Alt. to Kevin M. Green)

                                                Timothy R. Oates, Johnson Controls/Tyco/SimplexGrinnell, DE
                                                [M]

                                                    (Alt. to Daniel J. Gauvin)
                                                Charles Taylor, U.S. Coast Guard, DC [E]

                                                    (Alt. to Louis Nash)
                                                Ed Vaillancourt, E & M International, Inc., NM [M]

                                                    (Alt. to Kimberly A. Gruner)
                                                Albert R. Wickham, Alarm Detection Systems Inc., IL [IM]

                                                    (Alt. to Robert A. Bonifas)

R Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison
 O This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
                                     Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the

F back of the document.
              NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
              the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.

              Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on
              common system fundamentals for fire alarm and signaling systems, requirements for
              approvals, power supplies, equipment performance, system documentation, and
              compatibility.

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                COMMITTEE PERSONNEL                                                               72-9

Technical Committee on Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms and Household Signaling Systems (SIG-HOU)
                                                    (Chapter 29 and Annex H)

                                                   Laurence J. Dallaire, Chair
                                                Architect of the Capitol, DC [E]

                                                Edward M. Fraczkowski, Secretary
                                                 EBL Engineers, LLC, MD [SE]

H. Wayne Boyd, U.S. Safety & Engineering Corporation, CA [IM]     Andrew Marks, BRK Brands Inc., IL [M]
    Rep. California Automatic Fire Alarm Association Inc.             Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association

David E. Christian, Gentex Corporation, MI [M]                    David E. Mills, UL LLC, IL [RT]
    Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.
Thomas G. Cleary, U.S. National Institute of Standards &
Technology, MD [RT]

Y Timothy K. Dedear, City of Farmers Branch Fire Department, TX

[E]

L Wendy B. Gifford, Consultant, IL [SE]

Daniel T. Gottuk, JENSEN HUGHES, MD [SE]

N Rep. JENSEN HUGHES

Greg L. Hansen, Vivint Inc., UT [M]

O Richard Hoffman, Intertek, IL [RT]

Anna Kryagin, Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, NJ [U]
                                                                  Kim R. Mniszewski, FX Engineering, Inc., IL [SE]
                                                                  Cory Ogle, Code Consultants, Inc., MO [SE]
                                                                  Jeffrey L. Okun, Nuko Security, Inc., LA [IM]
                                                                  Stephen M. Olenick, Combustion Science & Engineering, Inc., MD
                                                                  [SE]
                                                                  Timothy A. Rader, ADT Security Services, Inc., FL [M]
                                                                  Larry Ratzlaff, UTC/Kidde Safety, IL [M]
                                                                  Richard M. Simpson, Vector Security Inc., PA [IM]

                                                                      Rep. The Monitoring Association
                                                               E Alternates
 S Oded Aron, Port Authority of New York & New Jersey, NY [U]
           (Alt. to Anna Kryagin)

 U Rick Heffernan, SDi, NJ [M]
           (Alt. to Andrew Marks)

 L Nasir Hussain, Combustion Science & Engineering, Inc., MD [SE]
           (Alt. to Stephen M. Olenick)

 A Matthew Jakusz, ADT Security Services, TX [M]
           (Alt. to Timothy A. Rader)

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Paul T. Kahle, Code Consultants, Inc., MO [SE]
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (Alt. to Cory Ogle)
 ID Jeffery P. McBride, EBL Engineers, LLC, MD [SE]
           (Alt. to Edward M. Fraczkowski)
                                     IV Nonvoting                 Ken Mott, Kidde Safety, CO [M]
                                                                      (Alt. to Larry Ratzlaff)

                                                                  John L. Parssinen, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                                      (Alt. to David E. Mills)

                                                                  Richard Jay Roberts, Honeywell Fire Safety, IL [M]
                                                                      (Alt. to David E. Christian)

                                                                  Samuel T. (Ted) Stoler, Vector Security Inc., PA [IM]
                                                                      (Alt. to Richard M. Simpson)

                                                                  Jason A. Sutula, JENSEN HUGHES, MD [SE]
                                                                      (Alt. to Daniel T. Gottuk)

                                                                  Emily Troyanski, Intertek Testing Services, NJ [RT]
                                                                      (Alt. to Richard Hoffman)

D Arthur S. Lee, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, MD [C]  Maurice M. Pilette, Mechanical Designs Ltd., MA [SE]
                                                                      Rep. TC on Residential Sprinkler Systems
INThis list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
         Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
         back of the document.
Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison

 R NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
O the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
F Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
performance, installation, operation, inspection, testing, maintenance, and use of single-
and multiple-station alarms and household signaling systems.

                                                                                                                          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-10                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              Technical Committee on Initiating Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems (SIG-IDS)
                                                        (Chapter 17 and Annex B)

                                                               Daniel J. O'Connor, Chair
                                       JENSEN HUGHES/AON Fire Protection Engineering, IL [SE]

                                                                Rep. JENSEN HUGHES

Wayne J. Aho, Jr., Johnson Controls/Tyco Fire Protection Products,  Samuel M. Miller, BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., AK [U]
MA [M]
    Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.                     Ovid E. Morphew, Jr., Design/Systems Group, TX [IM]
                                                                        Rep. National Independent Fire Alarm Distributors Assn.
Mark S. Boone, Dominion Resources Services Inc., VA [U]
       Rep. Edison Electric Institute                               James W. Mottorn, II, Bosch Security Systems, NY [M]

                                                                    Abhay Nadgir, UTC/Kidde-Fenwal, Inc., MA [M]
John M. Cholin, J. M. Cholin Consultants Inc., NJ [SE]
Kenneth W. Dungan, Performance Design Technologies, TN [SE]
Donald Duplechian, Wilson Fire Equipment, TX [IM]

Y Marty Heller, Shambaugh and Son, IN [M]
    Rep. National Fire Sprinkler Association

L Scott R. Lang, Honeywell International, IL [M]
N Michael Lessar, Reading Fire Department, PA [E]

Norbert W. Makowka, National Association of Fire Equipment
Distributors, IL [IM]

O Rep. National Association of Fire Equipment Distributors

Larry W. Mann, Central Station, Inc., AL [IM]

E Rep. Electronic Security Association

Chris Marrion, Marrion Fire & Risk Consulting PE, LLC, NY [SE]

S Justin D. Merrick, S&S Sprinkler Company, LLC, AL [IM]
                                                                        Rep. Fire Suppression Systems Association
                                                                    Lynn Nielson, City of Henderson, NV [E]
                                                                    Ronald D. Ouimette, Siemens Building Technologies, Inc., NJ [M]
                                                                    John L. Parssinen, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                                    David L. Royse, Potter Electric Signal Company, MO [M]
                                                                    John R. Schertel, Jr., Apollo America Inc., MI [M]

                                                                        Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
                                                                    Kenneth R. Schneider, UA - ITF, MO [L]

                                                                        Rep. United Assn. of Journeymen & Apprentices of the
                                                                    Plumbing & Pipe Fitting Industry
                                                                    Michael D. Sides, Global Asset Protection Services, LLC, FL [I]
                                                                    Mark Swerdin, Zurich Services Corporation, NY [I]
                                                                    David Waite, FM Approvals, MA [I]
                                                         U Alternates
Mark E. Agar, Fire Equipment Company Inc., MI [IM]

L (Alt. to Norbert W. Makowka)

Scott Bailey, Koorsen Fire & Security, IN [M]

A (Alt. to Abhay Nadgir)

Charles Berra, Sprinkler Fitters LU 268 JAC, MO [L]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (Alt. to Kenneth R. Schneider)

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Charles E. Brockett, Global Asset Protection Services, LLC, TX [I]

ID (Alt. to Michael D. Sides)

Scott A. Frazer, Performance Design Technologies, TN [SE]

IV (Alt. to Kenneth W. Dungan)

Scott M. Golly, JENSEN HUGHES, MD [SE]
    (Alt. to Daniel J. O'Connor)

D Louis Guerrazzi, National Fire Sprinkler Association, MD [M]
    (Alt. to Marty Heller)

IN Todd Gustafson, Mircom Group Of Companies, MO [M]
    (Alt. to Wayne J. Aho, Jr.)
Robert A. Hall, R.A. Hall & Associates, NJ [SE]

    (Voting Alternate)
R Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison                               Michael A. Henke, Potter Electric Signal Company, MO [M]
                                                                        (Alt. to David L. Royse)

                                                                    Steven W. Joseph, Honeywell/Xtralis, Inc., OR [M]
                                                                        (Alt. to Scott R. Lang)

                                                                    Robert Kasiski, FM Global, MA [I]
                                                                        (Alt. to David Waite)

                                                                    Henry J. Kozlowski, Zurich Services Corporation, RI [I]
                                                                        (Alt. to Mark Swerdin)

                                                                    Jack McNamara, Bosch Security Systems, NY [M]
                                                                        (Alt. to James W. Mottorn, II)

                                                                    David E. Mills, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                                        (Alt. to John L. Parssinen)

                                                                    David M. Nelson, Volunteer Technology Systems, TN [IM]
                                                                        (Alt. to Ovid E. Morphew, Jr.)

                                                                    Brian E. Swanick, Siemens Industry, Inc., NJ [M]
                                                                        (Alt. to Ronald D. Ouimette)

                                                                    Jerry Trotter, City of Henderson, NV [E]
                                                                        (Alt. to Lynn Nielson)
 O This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
F Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
              back of the document.

              NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
              the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.

              Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
              installation and operation of initiating devices for fire alarm and signaling systems.

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             COMMITTEE PERSONNEL                                                                    72-11

Technical Committee on Notification Appliances for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems (SIG-NAS)
                                              (Chapter 18 and Annex D)

                                                     David O. Lowrey, Chair
                                             City of Boulder Fire Rescue, CO [E]

                                                          David E. Becker, Secretary
                                              Fire Equipment Service Company, KY [IM]
                                     Rep. National Association of Fire Equipment Distributors

Todd Alford, System Sensor, IL [M]           Bob D. Morgan, Fort Worth Fire Department, TX [E]
Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.
                                             David Newhouse, Gentex Corporation, MI [M]
David Dressler, Minnesota Statewide Limited Energy JATC, MN [L]
    Rep. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers

Michael L. Edwards, U.S. Architect of the Capitol, DC [U]

Y Raymond A. Grill, Arup, DC [SE]

Daniel M. Grosch, UL LLC, IL [RT]

L Paul Jennison, Forsyth County Georgia, GA [U]

Doug Kline, Nowak Supply Fire Systems, IN [M]

N Rep. Fire Suppression Systems Association

Neal W. Krantz, Sr., Krantz Systems & Associates, LLC, MI [IM]

O Rep. NFPA Industrial Fire Protection Section

Steven P. Lewis, RFI Enterprises, CA [IM]

E David Madole, University of Texas at Austin, TX [U]
                                                 Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
                                             Isaac I. Papier, Papier Consulting Group LLC, IL [SE]
                                             Maurice M. Pilette, Mechanical Designs Ltd., MA [SE]
                                             Andrew W. Poole, Poole Fire Protection, Inc., KS [SE]
                                             Robert P. Schifiliti, R. P. Schifiliti Associates, Inc., MA [SE]
                                             Michael T. Schmitt, Long Grove Fire Protection District, IL [E]

                                                 Rep. Illinois Fire Inspectors Association
                                             Daniel L. Seibel, Wolverine Fire Protection Company, MI [IM]
                                             Morris L. Stoops, UTC Fire & Security/Edwards, KS [M]
                                             Paul R. Strelecki, Siemens Building Technologies, Inc., NJ [M]
                                             John R. Swanson, Minnesota State Fire Marshal Division, MN [E]
                                             S Alternates
       Robert F. Accosta, Jr., Arup, NY [SE]

 U (Alt. to Raymond A. Grill)

       Jan Braam, UTC Climate, Controls & Security/Edwards, FL [M]

 L (Alt. to Morris L. Stoops)

       Mark C. Hamilton, Siemens, Inc., NJ [M]

 A (Alt. to Paul R. Strelecki)

       Neal W. Krantz, Jr., Krantz Systems & Associates, LLC, MI [IM]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (Alt. to Neal W. Krantz, Sr.)
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} James Mongeau, Space Age Electronics, Inc., MA [M]
 ID (Alt. to Todd Alford)
                                             Leon Newsome, Cooper Notification, FL [M]
                                                 (Alt. to David Newhouse)

                                             Warren E. Olsen, Fire Safety Consultants, Inc., IL [E]
                                                 (Alt. to Michael T. Schmitt)

                                             Scott E. Panowitz, BFPE International, MD [M]
                                                 (Alt. to Doug Kline)

                                             Jack Poole, Poole Fire Protection, Inc., KS [SE]
                                                 (Alt. to Andrew W. Poole)

                                             Rich Rhome, Froula Alarm Systems, Inc., WA [IM]
                                                 (Voting Alternate)
IV This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison
Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the

Dback of the document.
INNOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
         the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
                                            Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the

FOR installation and operation of notification appliances for fire alarm and signaling systems.

                                                                                                                                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-12                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              Technical Committee on Protected Premises Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems (SIG-PRO)
                                               (Chapters 12, 21, and 23 and Annex C)

                                                                Jack Poole, Chair
                                                    Poole Fire Protection, Inc., KS [SE]

                                                    Leonard Belliveau, Jr., Secretary
                                                      JENSEN HUGHES, RI [SE]
                                                        Rep. JENSEN HUGHES

Merton W. Bunker, Jr., EYP Architecture & Engineering, VA [SE]  Brian Jarvis, NSA, MD [U]

David J. Burkhart, Code Consultants, Inc., MO [SE]              Thomas E. Kuhta, Willis Towers Watson, NY [I]

Robert Cole, Intertek Testing Services, NJ [RT]
    Rep. Intertek Testing Services

David Correia, Honeywell International, CT [M]

Y Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association

Paul F. Crowley, FM Approvals, MA [I]

L Diane P. Doliber, Consultant, NC [SE]

Laura E. Doyle, U.S. General Services Administration, DC [U]

N Thomas P. Hammerberg, Jasper, GA [M]
    Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.

O Scott D. Harris, AFA Protective Systems, Inc., NY [IM]

William K. Hopple, Hopple & Company, CA [IM]

E Rep. California Automatic Fire Alarm Association Inc.

Daniel J. Horon, CADgraphics, Incorporated, FL [M]

S Vic Humm, Vic Humm & Associates, TN [SE]
                                                                Peter Leszczak, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, CT [U]
                                                                Gregg Lupaczyk, Tyco, MA [M]
                                                                Scott T. Martorano, The Viking Corporation, MI [M]

                                                                    Rep. National Fire Sprinkler Association
                                                                Jebediah J. Novak, Cedar Rapids Electrical JATC, IA [L]

                                                                    Rep. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
                                                                Frank Savino, United Fire Protection Corporation, NJ [M]

                                                                    Rep. Fire Suppression Systems Association
                                                                Lawrence J. Shudak, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                                Donald Struck, Siemens Fire Safety, NJ [M]
                                                                Sagiv Weiss-Ishai, San Francisco Fire Department, CA [E]
                                                                David E. Whittington, Blue Ridge Security Systems Inc., TN [IM]

                                                                    Rep. Electronic Security Association
                                                                Carl F. Willms, Fire Safety Consultants, Inc., NJ [SE]
                                                                U Alternates
Vincent Baroncini, Siemens, Inc., NJ [M]

L (Alt. to Donald Struck)

Donald C. Birchler, FP&C Consultants, MO [SE]

A (Alt. to Vic Humm)

Martin Chiarizio, Johnson Controls/TYCO/Commercial Wireless

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Systems International (CWSI), FL [M]
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (Alt. to Gregg Lupaczyk)

ID Joshua W. Elvove, Aurora, CO [SE]
    (Alt. to Carl F. Willms)

IV Mark D. Hayes, JENSEN HUGHES/AON Fire Protection

Engineering, TX [SE]
    (Alt. to Leonard Belliveau, Jr.)

D Jacob P. Hemke, Code Consultants, Inc., MO [SE]
    (Alt. to David J. Burkhart)

IN Theodore Ivers, UL LLC, NY [RT]
    (Alt. to Lawrence J. Shudak)
Walter J. Kessler, Jr., FM Approvals, MA [I]

    (Alt. to Paul F. Crowley)
R Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison                           Mark LaBua, AFA Protective Systems Inc., NY [IM]
                                                                    (Alt. to Scott D. Harris)

                                                                Peter A. Larrimer, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, PA [U]
                                                                    (Alt. to Peter Leszczak)

                                                                Andre Lickefett, Minimax GmbH & Co. KG, Germany [M]
                                                                    (Alt. to Scott T. Martorano)

                                                                Michael D. Mann, American Professional Services, Inc., OK [IM]
                                                                    (Voting Alternate)

                                                                Sean P. Titus, Fike Corporation, MO [M]
                                                                    (Alt. to Frank Savino)

                                                                Jeffery G. Van Keuren, UTC Climate, Controls & Security/Edwards,
                                                                FL [M]

                                                                    (Alt. to Thomas P. Hammerberg)
                                                                Brandon Wilkerson, Poole Fire Protection, OK [SE]

                                                                    (Alt. to Jack Poole)
                                                                Brian Woodward, Fire Safety Engineers Inc., NV [SE]

                                                                    (Alt. to Diane P. Doliber)

 O This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
F Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
              back of the document.

              NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
              the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.

              Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
              installation and operation of protected premises fire alarm and signaling systems, including
              their interconnection with initiating devices, notification appliances, and other related
              building control equipment, within the protected premises.

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    COMMITTEE PERSONNEL                                                           72-13

Technical Committee on Public Emergency Reporting Systems (SIG-PRS)
                                       (Chapter 27)

                                                              Leo F. Martin, Jr., Chair
                                                Martin Electrical Code Consultants, MA [SE]

Douglas M. Aiken, Lakes Region Mutual Fire Aid, NH [E]      Gregory D. Lapin, King-Fisher Company, Inc., MA [M]

George W. Allen, R.B. Allen Company, Inc., NH [IM]          Robert Malanga, Fire and Risk Engineering, NJ [SE]
                                                            Rep. Fairmount Fire Company No. 1
Anthony W. Cole, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., CA [U]
                                                            Max McLeod, Siemens Industry, Inc., AL [M]
Michael Scott Custer, Fort Detrick Fire Department, MD [E]
                                                            Robert E. Myers, MC Dean, VA [IM]
Daniel R. Dinwiddie, L W Bills Company, MA [M]
                                                            Isa Y. Saah, GHD/The Protection Engineering Group, VA [SE]
Romeo G. Dupuis, Manchester VA Hospital, NH [U]
Samuel Iannucci, Chubb Group of Insurance Companies, PA [I]
Jeffrey G. Knight, City of Newton Fire Department, MA [U]

Y Rep. International Municipal Signal Association

Robert E. Lapham, Signal Communications Corporation, MA [M]
                                                            Deborah L. Shaner, Shaner Life Safety, CO [SE]
                                                            Stephen Smith, Advanced Signal Corporation, MA [IM]
                                                            Cindy G. Tate, Fort A.P. Hill Fire & Emergency Services, VA [U]
                                                            Christopher Willms, Sea Girt Fire Company #1, NJ [E]
NL Robert J. Allen, R.B. Allen Company, Inc., NH [IM]
    (Alt. to George W. Allen)

O Dwayne Griffith, Walmart Security Services, AR [U]
    (Alt. to Anthony W. Cole)

E Charles E. Hahl, GHD Inc., VA [SE]
    (Alt. to Isa Y. Saah)
                                                            Alternates

                                                                       Hans Kristensen, Woodstock Fire/Rescue Department, IL [U]
                                                                           (Alt. to Jeffrey G. Knight)

                                                                       Leo J. Watts, Signal Communications Corporation, MA [M]
                                                                           (Alt. to Robert E. Lapham)

                                                                       Michael S. White, Siemens Building Technologies, OH [M]
                                                                           (Alt. to Max McLeod)
S Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison
U This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.

Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the

L back of the document.
A NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of

the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
              8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} proper configuration, performance, installation, and operation of public emergency alarm
       ID reporting systems and auxiliary alarm systems. The Committee scope shall include systems
                                            that use a communication infrastructure that is publicly owned, operated, and controlled.
                                            Reporting of alarms by voice over the public switched telephone network utilizing the
       IV Universal Emergency Number 9-1-1, or any other telephone number that can be dialed, is

FOR INDoutside the scope of this committee.

                                                                                                                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-14                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              Technical Committee on Supervising Station Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems (SIG-SSS)
                                                                (Chapter 26)

                                                               Warren E. Olsen, Chair
                                                       Fire Safety Consultants, Inc., IL [E]
                                                     Rep. Illinois Fire Inspectors Association

Raymond E. Bigelow, Natick, MA [U]                            Alan J. Kouchinsky, JENSEN HUGHES, MD [SE]
    Rep. International Municipal Signal Association               Rep. JENSEN HUGHES

Art Black, Carmel Fire Protection Associates, CA [E]          Scott M. May, Bosch Security Systems, NY [M]
                                                              Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
David A. Blanken, Keltron Corporation, MA [M]
                                                              John Franklin Milliron, AES Corporation, MA [M]
Robert F. Buckley, Signal Communications Corporation, MA [M]
                                                              Scott Newman, Walgreens, IL [U]
                                                              Donald C. Pannell, City of Memphis, TN [E]
                                                              Roy Pollack, Comcast Xfinity Home, FL [U]

                                                                  Rep. Electronic Security Association
                                                              Richard Jay Roberts, Honeywell Fire Safety, IL [M]
                                                              Steven A. Schmit, UL LLC, IL [RT]

                                                                  Rep. UL LLC
                                                              Sean P. Titus, Fike Corporation, MO [M]

                                                                  Rep. Fire Suppression Systems Association
Lawrence E. Coveny, Chicago Metropolitan Fire Prevention
Company, IL [IM]
James S. Crews, Allianz Global Corporation & Specialty, GA [I]

Y Jason Dupuis, Cintas Fire Protection F19, CA [M]
L Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.

William J. (Jody) Dwyer, Germantown Fire Department, TN [E]

N Bob Elliott, FM Approvals, MA [I]

Donald Fess, Harvard University, MA [U]

O Joseph (Jay) Hauhn, The Monitoring Association, VA [IM]
    Rep. The Monitoring Association
Richard G. Kluge, Ericsson, NJ [U]

E Rep. Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions
                                                              S Alternates
U Douglas M. Aiken, Lakes Region Mutual Fire Aid, NH [U]
    (Alt. to Raymond E. Bigelow)
Shane M. Clary, Bay Alarm Company, CA [M]

L (Alt. to Jason Dupuis)

Martin J. Farraher, Siemens Industry, Inc., IL [M]

A (Alt. to Sean P. Titus)

Scott D. Henderson, Allianz Global Corporation & Specialty, MA [I]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (Alt. to James S. Crews)

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Paul J. Olson, UL LLC, MN [RT]

ID (Alt. to Steven A. Schmit)

Thomas J. Parrish, Telgian Corporation, MI [U]

IV (Voting Alternate)
                                                              Steven P. Sargent, Keltron Corporation, MA [M]
                                                                  (Alt. to David A. Blanken)

                                                              Randy H. Schubert, Ericsson, NJ [U]
                                                                  (Alt. to Richard G. Kluge)

                                                              Michael Sherman, AES Corporation, MA [M]
                                                                  (Alt. to John Franklin Milliron)

                                                              Michael G. Slossar, AT&T Digital Life, NJ [U]
                                                                  (Alt. to Roy Pollack)

                                                              Deane E. Walker, Grayslake Fire Protection District, IL [E]
                                                                  (Alt. to Warren E. Olsen)

                                                              Leo J. Watts, Signal Communications Corporation, MA [M]
                                                                  (Alt. to Robert F. Buckley)
              D This list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison
                Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the

              INback of the document.
   R Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents on the
 O installation and operation of equipment for the transmission and receipt of signals from a
F protected premises to a supervising station, including the supervising station facilities.
              NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
              the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                       COMMITTEE PERSONNEL                                                                            72-15

Technical Committee on Testing and Maintenance of Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems (SIG-TMS)
                                               (Chapter 14 and Annex F)

                                           J. Jeffrey Moore, Chair
                                       JENSEN HUGHES, OH [SE]

Timothy E. Adams, American Society for Healthcare Engineering,      James Murphy, Vector Security Inc., PA [IM]
IN [U]                                                                  Rep. The Monitoring Association

    Rep. American Society for Healthcare Engineering                Robert Powers, East Providence Fire Department, RI [E]
Charles E. Brockett, Global Asset Protection Services, LLC, TX [I]  Michael J. Reeser, Santa Rosa Fire Equipment Service Inc., CA [IM]
Richard L. Carter, Siemens Industry, Inc., NJ [M]
                                                                        Rep. California Automatic Fire Alarm Association Inc.

Louis Chavez, UL LLC, IL [RT]                                       Joe Scibetta, BuildingReports, GA [M]

Franklin Chenoweth, Fireline Corporation, MD [M]
    Rep. Fire Suppression Systems Association

Rick Heffernan, SDi, NJ [M]

Y Rep. National Electrical Manufacturers Association
L Herbert B. Hurst, Jr., Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, LLC, SC

[U]

N John Kelly, Washington DC Fire & EMS Department, MD [E]

Robert H. Kelly, Fire Defense Equipment Company, Inc., MI [IM]

O J. David Kerr, Plano Fire Department, TX [E]
    Rep. NFPA Fire Service Section
E. J. Kleintop, Johnson Controls/Tyco/SimplexGrinnell, PA [M]

E Peter A. Larrimer, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, PA [U]
                                                                    George E. Seymour, Montgomery, TX [IM]
                                                                        Rep. National Association of Fire Equipment Distributors

                                                                    Derek Shackley, Pacific Auxiliary Fire Alarm, CA [M]
                                                                        Rep. Automatic Fire Alarm Association, Inc.

                                                                    Michael J. Slattery, AFA Protective Systems, Inc., MA [IM]
                                                                    Timothy M. Soverino, Nantucket, MA [U]

                                                                        Rep. International Municipal Signal Association
                                                                    Charles K. Stormer, U.S. General Services Administration, IL [U]

                                                                        Rep. U.S. General Services Administration
                                                                    Frank L. Van Overmeiren, Fire Protection & Code Consultants,
                                                                    LLC, IN [SE]
                                                                    S Alternates
 U Scott Bailey, Koorsen Fire & Security, IN [M]
           (Alt. to Franklin Chenoweth)
       Chad E. Beebe, ASHE - AHA, WA [U]

 L (Alt. to Timothy E. Adams)

       Anthony Bloodworth, Siemens Industries, Inc., IL [M]

 A (Alt. to Richard L. Carter)

       Scott D. Carlson, Fire Defense Equipment Company, Inc., MI [IM]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (Alt. to Robert H. Kelly)
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Shane Courbier, Gentex Corporation, MI [M]
 ID (Alt. to Rick Heffernan)
       Ariana Hargrove, City of Rockwall Fire Department, TX [E]
 IV (Alt. to J. David Kerr)
       Vic Humm, Vic Humm & Associates, TN [SE]
           (Alt. to Frank L. Van Overmeiren)
D Richard J. Roux, NFPA Staff Liaison                               Bill Isemann, Guardian Fire Protection Services LLC, MD [IM]
                                                                        (Alt. to George E. Seymour)

                                                                    Matthew Jackson, AFA Protective Systems Inc., NJ [IM]
                                                                        (Alt. to Michael J. Slattery)

                                                                    David E. Kipley, JENSEN HUGHES, IL [SE]
                                                                        (Alt. to J. Jeffrey Moore)

                                                                    Peter Leszczak, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, CT [U]
                                                                        (Alt. to Peter A. Larrimer)

                                                                    Thomas Presnak, UL LLC, IL [RT]
                                                                        (Alt. to Louis Chavez)

                                                                    Michael D. Sides, Global Asset Protection Services, LLC, FL [I]
                                                                        (Alt. to Charles E. Brockett)

                                                                    Terry L. Victor, Johnson Controls/Tyco/SimplexGrinnell, MD [M]
                                                                        (Alt. to E. J. Kleintop)
INThis list represents the membership at the time the Committee was balloted on the final text of this edition.
         Since that time, changes in the membership may have occurred. A key to classifications is found at the
         back of the document.
R NOTE: Membership on a committee shall not in and of itself constitute an endorsement of
                        the Association or any document developed by the committee on which the member serves.
FO Committee Scope: This Committee shall have primary responsibility for documents and
requirements for the inspection, testing, and maintenance of fire alarm and signaling
systems and associated components, for both new and existing systems. This Committee shall
not have responsibility for inspection, testing, and maintenance of single-and multiple-
station alarms and household signaling systems.

                                                                                                                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-16                                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                                                              Contents

Chapter 1 Administration ................................................ 72­ 18              10.20 Documentation and Notification. .......................... 72­ 80

1.1 Scope. ....................................................................... 72­ 18     10.21 Impairments. ........................................................... 72­ 81

1.2 Purpose. ................................................................... 72­ 18       10.22 Unwanted Alarms. ................................................... 72­ 81

1.3 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 18         Chapter 11 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 81
1.4 Retroactivity. ............................................................ 72­ 19

1.5 Equivalency. ............................................................. 72­ 19         Chapter 12 Circuits and Pathways ....................................                72­ 81
1.6 Units and Formulas. ................................................ 72­ 19                 12.1 Application. .............................................................    72­ 81
1.7 Code Adoption Requirements. .............................. 72­ 19                           12.2 General. ...................................................................  72­ 81

Chapter 2 Referenced Publications ................................ 72­ 19                     12.3 Pathway Class Designations. ................................... 72­ 81

2.1 General. ................................................................... 72­ 19       12.4 Pathway Survivability. .............................................. 72­ 82

Y Chapter 3 Definitions ......................................................
L 3.1 General. ...................................................................

  3.2 NFPA Official Definitions. ......................................

N 3.3 General Definitions. ................................................
2.2 NFPA Publications. ................................................. 72­ 19                 12.5 Shared Pathway Designations. ................................ 72­ 82
2.3 Other Publications. ................................................. 72­ 19                12.6 Monitoring Integrity and Circuit Performance of
2.4 References for Extracts in Mandatory Sections. ... 72­ 20
                                                                                                          Installation Conductors and Other Signaling
                                                                                     72­ 20               Channels. ................................................................. 72­ 82
                                                                                     72­ 20     12.7 Nomenclature. ........................................................ 72­ 83
                                                                                     72­ 20
                                                                                     72­ 21   Chapter 13 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 83
O Chapter 4 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 36
E Chapter 6 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 36         Chapter 14 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance .......... 72­ 83
Chapter 5 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 36             14.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 83
S Chapter 7 Documentation ...............................................                       14.2 General. ................................................................... 72­ 83
  7.1 Application. (SIG-FUN) .........................................               72­ 37     14.3 Inspection. ............................................................... 72­ 85
U 7.2 Minimum Required Documentation. (SIG-FUN)                                      72­ 37     14.4 Testing. ..................................................................... 72­ 85
  7.3 Design (Layout) Documentation. ..........................                      72­ 37     14.5 Maintenance. ........................................................... 72­ 100
L 7.4 Shop Drawings (Installation Documentation).                                    72­ 37     14.6 Records. ................................................................... 72­ 100
            (SIG-FUN) ...............................................................
A 7.5 Completion Documentation. .................................                    72­ 38   Chapter 15 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 100
  7.6 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance                                           72­ 39
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Documentation. (SIG-TMS) ...................................              Chapter 16 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 100
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 7.7 Records, Record Retention, and Record                       72­ 40
  ID Maintenance. ...........................................................                 Chapter 17 Initiating Devices ............................................ 72­ 101
  7.8 Forms. ......................................................................  72­ 40     17.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 101
                                                                                     72­ 41     17.2 Purpose. ................................................................... 72­ 101
IV Chapter 8 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 72          17.3 Performance-Based Design. ................................... 72­ 101
D Chapter 10 Fundamentals .................................................                     17.4 General Requirements. ........................................... 72­ 101
IN 10.1 Application. .............................................................              17.5 Requirements for Smoke and Heat Detectors. ..... 72­ 101
                                                                                                17.6 Heat-Sensing Fire Detectors. .................................. 72­ 102
  10.2 Purpose. ...................................................................             17.7 Smoke-Sensing Fire Detectors. ............................... 72­ 104
  10.3 Equipment. ..............................................................                17.8 Radiant Energy­Sensing Fire Detectors. ............... 72­ 110
  10.4 Design and Installation. ..........................................                      17.9 Combination, Multi-Criteria, and Multi-Sensor
                                                                                                          Detectors. ................................................................. 72­ 111
R 10.5 Personnel Qualifications. .......................................                        17.10 Gas Detection. ......................................................... 72­ 112
                                                                                                17.11 Other Fire Detectors. .............................................. 72­ 112
  10.6 Power Supplies. .......................................................                  17.12 Carbon Monoxide Detectors. ................................. 72­ 112
                                                                                                17.13 Sprinkler Waterflow Alarm-Initiating Devices. ...... 72­ 113
O 10.7 Signal Priority. .........................................................               17.14 Detection of Operation of Other Automatic
                                                                                                          Extinguishing Systems. ........................................... 72­ 113
  10.8 Detection and Signaling of Conditions. ................                                  17.15 Manually Actuated Alarm-Initiating Devices. ........ 72­ 113
                                                                                                17.16 Fire Extinguisher Electronic Monitoring Device. . 72­ 113
F10.9 Responses. ...............................................................                17.17 Supervisory Signal­Initiating Devices. ................... 72­ 113
Chapter 9 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 72
                                                                                              Chapter 18 Notification Appliances .................................. 72­ 114
                                                                                     72­ 72
                                                                                     72­ 72
                                                                                     72­ 72
                                                                                     72­ 72
                                                                                     72­ 72
                                                                                     72­ 72
                                                                                     72­ 74
                                                                                     72­ 77
                                                                                     72­ 77
                                                                                     72­ 77

10.10 Distinctive Signals. .................................................. 72­ 77          18.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 114

10.11 Alarm Signals. .......................................................... 72­ 78        18.2 Purpose. ................................................................... 72­ 114

10.12 Fire Alarm Notification Appliance Deactivation. .. 72­ 78                               18.3 General. ................................................................... 72­ 114

10.13 Carbon Monoxide (CO) Notification Appliance                                             18.4 Audible Characteristics. .......................................... 72­ 115

       Deactivation. ............................................................ 72­ 78      18.5 Visual Characteristics -- Public Mode. .................. 72­ 118

10.14 Supervisory Signals. ................................................ 72­ 78            18.6 Visual Characteristics -- Private Mode. ................. 72­ 121

10.15 Trouble Signals. ....................................................... 72­ 79         18.7 Supplementary Visual Signaling Method. ............. 72­ 121

10.16 Emergency Control Function Status Indicators. ... 72­ 80                                18.8 Textual Audible Appliances. .................................. 72­ 121

10.17 Notification Appliance Circuits and Control                                             18.9 Textual and Graphical Visual Appliances. ............. 72­ 121

       Circuits. .................................................................... 72­ 80  18.10 Tactile Appliances. .................................................. 72­ 122

10.18 Annunciation and Annunciation Zoning. ............. 72­ 80                              18.11 Standard Emergency Service Interface. ................ 72­ 123

10.19 Monitoring Integrity of In-Building Fire

       Emergency Voice/Alarm Communications                                                   Chapter 19 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 123

       Systems. .................................................................... 72­ 80

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                     CONTENTS                                                                                       72-17

Chapter 20 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 123           24.13 Documentation for Emergency Communications

Chapter 21 Emergency Control Function Interfaces ....... 72­ 123                                         Systems. .................................................................... 72­ 151

21.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 123         Chapter 25 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 151

21.2 General. ................................................................... 72­ 123       Chapter 26 Supervising Station Alarm Systems ............... 72­ 151
21.3 Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation. .... 72­ 123                                    26.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 151
21.4 Elevator Power Shutdown. ...................................... 72­ 124                      26.2 General. ................................................................... 72­ 151
21.5 Fire Service Access Elevators. ................................. 72­ 125                     26.3 Central Station Service Alarm Systems. ................. 72­ 152
21.6 Occupant Evacuation Elevators (OEE). ................ 72­ 125                                26.4 Proprietary Supervising Station Alarm Systems. ... 72­ 154
21.7 Heating, Ventilating and Air-Conditioning                                                    26.5 Remote Supervising Station Alarm Systems. ......... 72­ 157
                                                                                                  26.6 Communications Methods for Supervising
         (HVAC) Systems. ..................................................... 72­ 126                      Station Alarm Systems. ............................................ 72­ 159
21.8 High Volume Low Speed (HVLS) Fans. ................ 72­ 126
21.9 Door and Shutter Release. ..................................... 72­ 126

      21.10 Electrically Locked Doors. ...................................... 72­ 127           Chapter 27 Public Emergency Alarm Reporting
      21.11 Exit Marking Audible Notification Systems. .......... 72­ 127                                          Systems ............................................................ 72­ 165

Y Chapter 22 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 127           27.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 165
L Chapter 23 Protected Premises Alarm and Signaling                                               27.2 General. ................................................................... 72­ 165
                                                                                                  27.3 Management and Maintenance. ............................ 72­ 166
                      Systems ............................................................ 72­ 12727.4 Communications Methods. .................................... 72­ 166
                                                                                                  27.5 Alarm Processing Equipment. ................................ 72­ 167
 N 23.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 127        27.6 Alarm Boxes. ........................................................... 72­ 171
                                                                                                  27.7 Public Cable Plant. .................................................. 72­ 174
      23.2 General. ................................................................... 72­ 127   27.8 Emergency Communications Systems (ECS). ....... 72­ 177
      23.3 System Features. ...................................................... 72­ 127
                                                                                                Chapter 28 Reserved ......................................................... 72­ 177
 O 23.4 System Performance and Integrity. ........................ 72­ 128
                                                                                                Chapter 29 Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms and
      23.5 Performance of Initiating Device Circuits                                                               Household Signaling Systems ........................ 72­ 177

  E (IDCs). ..................................................................... 72­ 128         29.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 177
                                                                                                  29.2 Purpose. ................................................................... 72­ 178
      23.6 Performance of Signaling Line Circuits (SLCs). .. 72­ 128                              29.3 Basic Requirements. ................................................ 72­ 178
                                                                                                  29.4 Remote Annunciation. ........................................... 72­ 178
 S 23.7 Performance of Notification Appliance Circuits                                            29.5 Notification. ............................................................ 72­ 178
                (NACs). .................................................................... 72­ 13029.6 Assumptions. ........................................................... 72­ 179
                                                                                                  29.7 Carbon Monoxide Detection. ................................ 72­ 179
 U 23.8 System Requirements. ............................................. 72­ 130                29.8 Detection and Notification. .................................... 72­ 179
                                                                                                  29.9 Power Supplies. ....................................................... 72­ 180
      23.9 In-Building Emergency Voice/Alarm                                                      29.10 Equipment Performance. ....................................... 72­ 182
                Communications. .................................................... 72­ 135      29.11 Installation. .............................................................. 72­ 184
                                                                                                  29.12 Optional Functions. ................................................ 72­ 186
 L 23.10 Fire Alarm Systems Using Tone. ............................ 72­ 135                      29.13 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance. ................. 72­ 186
                                                                                                  29.14 Markings and Instructions. ..................................... 72­ 186
      23.11 Suppression System Actuation. .............................. 72­ 135

 A 23.12 Off-Premises Signals. ............................................... 72­ 136

      23.13 Guard's Tour Supervisory Service. ......................... 72­ 136

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 23.14 Suppressed (Exception Reporting) Signal
     8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} System. ..................................................................... 72­ 136
 ID 23.15 Protected Premises Emergency Control
                Functions. ................................................................ 72­ 136
 IV 23.16 Special Requirements for Low-Power Radio
                (Wireless) Systems. .................................................. 72­ 136

   Chapter 24 Emergency Communications Systems (ECS) 72­ 138

 D 24.1 Application. ............................................................. 72­ 138

      24.2 Purpose. ................................................................... 72­ 138

 IN 24.3 General. ................................................................... 72­ 138

      24.4 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice/Alarm
                Communications Systems (EVACS). ...................... 72­ 140

 R 24.5 In-Building Mass Notification Systems. .................. 72­ 142

      24.6 Wide-Area Mass Notification Systems. ................... 72­ 146
      24.7 Distributed Recipient Mass Notification Systems

 O(DRMNS). ................................................................ 72­ 147
F24.8 Two-Way, In-Building Wired Emergency Services
                                                                                                Annex A Explanatory Material ...................................... 72­ 187

                                                                                                Annex B  Engineering Guide for Automatic Fire
                                                                                                         Detector Spacing ............................................ 72­ 311

                                                                                                Annex C System Performance and Design Guide ....... 72­ 354

                                                                                                Annex D Speech Intelligibility ....................................... 72­ 355

                                                                                                Annex E Sample Ordinance Adopting NFPA 72 .......... 72­ 366

Communications Systems. ...................................... 72­ 147                          Annex F Wiring Diagrams and Guide for Testing Fire

24.9 Two-Way Radio Communications Enhancement                                                            Alarm Circuits ................................................. 72­ 366

Systems. .................................................................... 72­ 148           Annex G Guidelines for Emergency Communication

24.10 Area of Refuge (Area of Rescue Assistance)                                                         Strategies for Buildings and Campuses ........ 72­ 374

Emergency Communications Systems, Stairway                                                      Annex H Carbon Monoxide .......................................... 72­ 379
Communications Systems, Elevator Landing

Communications Systems, and Occupant                                                            Annex I  Informational References ............................. 72­ 380
Evacuation Elevator Lobby Communications

         Systems. .................................................................... 72­ 148  Index    ......................................................................... 72­ 387
24.11 Information, Command, and Control. .................. 72­ 149

24.12 Performance-Based Design of Mass Notification

Systems. .................................................................... 72­ 150

                                                                                                                                                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-18                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                NFPA 72                                                             1.2* Purpose.

       National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code                                       1.2.1 The purpose of this Code shall be to define the means of
                                                                                    signal initiation, transmission, notification, and annunciation;
                                                                                    the levels of performance; and the reliability of the various
                2019 Edition                                                        types of fire alarm systems, supervising station alarm systems,

                                                                                    public emergency alarm reporting systems, fire and carbon
                                                                                    monoxide detection and warning equipment, emergency
IMPORTANT NOTE: This NFPA document is made available for                            communications systems, and their components.
use subject to important notices and legal disclaimers. These notices
and disclaimers appear in all publications containing this document
and may be found under the heading "Important Notices and                           1.2.2 This Code defines the features associated with these
Disclaimers Concerning NFPA Standards." They can also be viewed                     systems and also provides information necessary to modify or
at www.nfpa.org/disclaimers or obtained on request from NFPA.                       upgrade an existing system to meet the requirements of a
                                                                                    particular system classification.
   UPDATES, ALERTS, AND FUTURE EDITIONS: New editions of
NFPA codes, standards, recommended practices, and guides (i.e.,                     1.2.3 This Code establishes minimum required levels of
NFPA Standards) are released on scheduled revision cycles. This                     performance, extent of redundancy, and quality of installation
                                                                                    but does not establish the only methods by which these require-
Y edition may be superseded by a later one, or it may be amended                    ments are to be achieved.
L outside of its scheduled revision cycle through the issuance of Tenta-
                                                                                    1.2.4* This Code shall not be interpreted to require a level of
tive Interim Amendments (TIAs). An official NFPA Standard at any                    protection that is greater than that which would otherwise be
                                                                                    required by the applicable building or fire code.
N point in time consists of the current edition of the document, together
                                                                                    1.3 Application.
with all TIAs and Errata in effect. To verify that this document is the
                                                                                    1.3.1 Alarm systems shall be classified as follows:
O current edition or to determine if it has been amended by TIAs or                 (1) Fire alarm systems

Errata, please consult the National Fire Codes® Subscription Service                       (a) Household fire alarm systems
or the "List of NFPA Codes & Standards" at www.nfpa.org/docinfo.                           (b) Protected premises (local) fire alarm systems
                                                                                    (2) Carbon monoxide detection equipment and systems
E In addition to TIAs and Errata, the document information pages also                      (a) Single and multiple station carbon monoxide

include the option to sign up for alerts for individual documents and                             alarms
                                                                                           (b) Carbon monoxide detectors and their related
S to be involved in the development of the next edition.
   NOTICE: An asterisk (*) following the number or letter                                         systems and components
                                                                                    (3) Supervising station alarm systems
U designating a paragraph indicates that explanatory material on
                                                                                           (a) Central station (service) alarm systems
the paragraph can be found in Annex A.                                                     (b) Remote supervising station alarm systems
                                                                                           (c) Proprietary supervising station alarm systems
L A reference in brackets following a section or paragraph                          (4) Public emergency alarm reporting systems
                                                                                           (a) Auxiliary alarm systems -- local energy-type
indicates material that has been extracted from another NFPA                               (b) Auxiliary alarm systems -- shunt-type

A document. As an aid to the user, the complete title and edition                   1.3.2 Emergency communications systems shall be classified as
                                                                                    follows:
of the source documents for extracts in mandatory sections of                       (1) One-way emergency communications systems

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the document are given in Chapter 2 and those for extracts in          (a) Distributed recipient mass notification systems
                                                                                           (b) In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communi-
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} informational sections are given in Annex I. Extracted text may
                                                                                                  cations systems
ID be edited for consistency and style and may include the revi-                           (c) In-building mass notification systems
                                                                                           (d) Wide-area mass notification systems
sion of internal paragraph references and other references as                       (2) Two-way emergency communications systems

IV appropriate. Requests for interpretations or revisions of extrac-

ted text shall be sent to the technical committee responsible
for the source document.

D A reference in parentheses ( ) following a paragraph indi-

cates the committee responsibility for that section or para-

IN graph. Committee acronyms are keyed to the acronyms shown

with the committee lists at the front of the document.
   Information on referenced publications can be found in

Chapter 2 and Annex I.
FOR 1.1 Scope.
              Chapter 1 Administration

 1.1.1 NFPA 72 covers the application, installation, location,                      (a) In-building emergency communications systems
   performance, inspection, testing, and maintenance of fire
alarm systems, supervising station alarm systems, public emer-                      1.3.3 Any reference or implied reference to a particular type
gency alarm reporting systems, fire and carbon monoxide                             of hardware shall be for the purpose of clarity and shall not be
detection and warning equipment, and emergency communi-                             interpreted as an endorsement.
cations systems (ECS), and their components.
                                                                                    1.3.4 The intent and meaning of the terms used in this Code
1.1.2 The provisions of this chapter apply throughout the                           shall be, unless otherwise defined herein, the same as those of
Code unless otherwise noted.                                                        NFPA 70.

N 1.1.3 For the purposes of carbon monoxide detection, this            N 1.3.5 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 21,
   standard is primarily concerned with life safety, not property         23, 24, 26, and 27 shall apply unless otherwise noted in the
   protection.

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             REFERENCED PUBLICATIONS                                                                                72-19

specific chapter. Chapter 29 is designed to stand alone unless it                     NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 2019
specifically references an earlier chapter.                                           edition.

1.4 Retroactivity.                                                                       NFPA 25, Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance
                                                                                      of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems, 2017 edition.

1.4.1 Unless otherwise noted, it is not intended that the provi-                      NFPA 37, Standard for the Installation and Use of Stationary
sions of this document be applied to facilities, equipment,                           Combustion Engines and Gas Turbines, 2018 edition.
structures, or installations that were existing or approved for
construction or installation prior to the effective date of the                          NFPA 70®, National Electrical Code®, 2017 edition.
document.                                                                                NFPA 75, Standard for the Fire Protection of Information Technol-
                                                                                      ogy Equipment, 2017 edition.

1.4.2 In those cases where it is determined by the authority                             NFPA 90A, Standard for the Installation of Air-Conditioning and
having jurisdiction that the existing situation involves a distinct                   Ventilating Systems, 2018 edition.

hazard to life or property, retroactive application of the provi-                     NFPA 101®, Life Safety Code®, 2018 edition.
   sions of this document shall be permitted.
   1.5 Equivalency.                                                                         NFPA 110, Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems,
                                                                                         2019 edition.
Y 1.5.1 Nothing in this Code shall prevent the use of systems,
L methods, devices, or appliances of equivalent or superior qual-                           NFPA 111, Standard on Stored Electrical Energy Emergency and
                                                                                         Standby Power Systems, 2019 edition.
   ity, strength, fire resistance, effectiveness, durability, and safety
                                                                                            NFPA 170, Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols, 2018
N over those prescribed by this Code.                                                    edition.
O 1.5.2 Technical documentation shall be submitted to the
                                                                                            NFPA 601, Standard for Security Services in Fire Loss Prevention,
   authority having jurisdiction to demonstrate equivalency.                             2015 edition.

E 1.5.3 The systems, methods, devices, or appliances that are                               NFPA 1031, Standard for Professional Qualifications for Fire
                                                                                         Inspector and Plan Examiner, 2014 edition.
   found equivalent shall be approved.
                                                                                            NFPA 1221, Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use
S 1.6 Units and Formulas.                                                                of Emergency Services Communications Systems, 2019 edition.
U 1.6.1 The units of measure in this Code are presented in U.S.
                                                                                            NFPA 1600®, Standard on Disaster/Emergency Management and
   Customary Units (inch-pound units).                                                   Business Continuity Programs, 2019 edition.

L 1.6.2 Where presented, the International System (SI) of Units                             NFPA 1620, Standard for Pre-Incident Planning, 2015 edition.

   follow the inch-pound units in parentheses.                                           2.3 Other Publications.

A 1.6.3 Where both systems of units are presented, either system                         2.3.1 ANSI Publications. American National Standards Insti-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U shall be acceptable for satisfying the requirements in this Code.    tute, Inc., 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 1.6.4 Where both systems of units are presented, users of this
                                                                                            ANSI A-58.1, Building Code Requirements for Minimum Design
   Code shall apply one set of units consistently and shall not                          Loads in Buildings and Other Structures.
   alternate between units.
                                                                                            ANSI S1.4a, Specifications for Sound Level Meters, 2014.
IV 1.6.5* The values presented for measurements in this Code
                                                                                            ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible Emer-
   are expressed with a degree of precision appropriate for practi-                      gency Evacuation (E2) and Evacuation Signals with Relocation
                                                                                         Instructions (ESRI), 1990, reaffirmed 2015.
D cal application and enforcement. It is not intended that the                        N· 2.3.2 ASME Publications. American Society of Mechanical
                                                                                         Engineers, Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990.
   application or enforcement of these values be more precise
                                                                                            ASME A17.1-2016/CSA B44-16, Safety Code for Elevators and
IN than the precision expressed.                                                         Escalators, 2016.

   1.6.6 Where extracted text contains values expressed in only                       N 2.3.3 IEEE Publications. Institute of Electrical and Electronics
   one system of units, the values in the extracted text have been                       Engineers, 3 Park Avenue, 17th Floor, New York, NY
                                                                                         10016-5997.
R retained without conversion to preserve the values established
                                                                                            IEEE 450, Recommended Practice for Maintenance, Testing, and
   by the responsible technical committee in the source docu-

Oment.
F1.7 Code Adoption Requirements. This Code shall be admin-
istered and enforced by the authority having jurisdiction desig-                      Replacement of Vented Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary Applications,
                                                                                      2010.
nated by the governing authority. (See Annex E for sample wording
for enabling legislation.)
                                                                                      IEEE 1106, Recommended Practice for Installation, Maintenance,
                                                                                      Testing, and Replacement of Vented Nickel-Cadmium Batteries for
                                                                                      Stationary Applications, 2005.
Chapter 2 Referenced Publications

2.1 General. The documents or portions thereof listed in this                            ANSI/IEEE C2, National Electrical Safety Code, 2017.
chapter are referenced within this Code and shall be consid-                          2.3.4 IMSA Publications. International Municipal Signal Asso-
ered part of the requirements of this document.                                       ciation, 165 East Union Street, Newark, NY 14513-0539.

2.2 NFPA Publications. National Fire Protection Association,                          "IMSA Official Wire and Cable Specifications," 2012.
1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169-7471.

NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2018 edition.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-20                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

2.3.5 ISO Publications. International Organization for Stand-                       ANSI/UL 2075, Standard for Gas and Vapor Detectors and
ardization, ISO Central Secretariat, BIBC II, Chemin de Blan-                    Sensors, 2nd edition, March 2013.
donnet 8, CP 401, 1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland.
                                                                                    ANSI/UL 2572, Mass Notification Systems, 2nd edition, 2016.
   ISO 7731, Danger signals for public and work places -- Auditory                  ANSI/UL 60950, Information Technology Equipment -- Safety --
danger signals, 2003 (reconfirmed 2015).                                         Part 1: General Requirements, 3rd edition, issued December 2005,
2.3.6 Telcordia Publications. Telcordia Technologies, One                        including Amendment 1 issued December 2009 and Amend-
Telcordia Drive, Piscataway, NJ 08854.                                           ment 2 issued May 2013.

GR-506-CORE, LATA Switching Systems Generic Requirements:                        2.3.9 Other Publications.
Signaling for Analog Interface, 2011.
                                                                                 Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, 11th edition, Merriam-
GR-909-CORE, Fiber in the Loop Systems Generic Requirements,                     Webster, Inc., Springfield, MA, 2003.
   2004.
N 2.3.7 TIA Publications. Telecommunications Industry Associa-                   2.4 References for Extracts in Mandatory Sections.
                                                                                    NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 2016
Y tion, 1320 North Courthouse Road, Suite 200, Arlington, VA
                                                                                 edition.
   22201.                                                                           NFPA 70®, National Electrical Code®, 2017 edition.
                                                                                    NFPA 101®, Life Safety Code®, 2018 edition.
 L TIA-526, Standard Test Procedures for Fiber Optic Systems.                       NFPA 654, Standard for the Prevention of Fire and Dust Explosions
 N ANSI/TIA-568-C.3, Optical Fiber Cabling Components Standard,
                                                                                 from the Manufacturing, Processing, and Handling of Combustible
   2015.                                                                         Particulate Solids, 2017 edition.

 O ANSI/TIA-569-D, Telecommunications Pathways and Spaces.                          NFPA 1221, Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use
E N 2.3.8 UL Publications. Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333                   of Emergency Services Communications Systems, 2019 edition.

   Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.                                       NFPA 5000®, Building Construction and Safety Code®, 2018
                                                                                 edition.
 S ANSI/UL 38, Standard for Manual Signaling Boxes for Fire
U Alarm Systems, 2008.                                                                                     Chapter 3 Definitions

      ANSI/UL 217, Standard for Single and Multiple Station Smoke                3.1 General. The definitions contained in this chapter shall
                                                                                 apply to the terms used in this Code. Where terms are not
L Alarms, 8th edition, revised 2016.                                             defined in this chapter or within another chapter, they shall be
 A ANSI/UL 268, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm                      defined using their ordinarily accepted meanings within the
                                                                                 context in which they are used. Merriam-Webster's Collegiate
   Systems, 7th edition, 2016.                                                   Dictionary, 11th edition, shall be the source for the ordinarily
                                                                                 accepted meaning.
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ANSI/UL 521, Standard for Heat Detectors for Fire Protective3.2 NFPA Official Definitions.
                                                                                 3.2.1* Approved. Acceptable to the authority having jurisdic-
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Signaling Systems, 7th edition, 1999, revised 2016.        tion.
                                                                                 3.2.2* Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). An organization,
 ID ANSI/UL 827, Standard for Central-Station Alarm Services, 8th                office, or individual responsible for enforcing the requirements
                                                                                 of a code or standard, or for approving equipment, materials,
   edition, 2014, revised 2016.                                                  an installation, or a procedure.
                                                                                 3.2.3* Code. A standard that is an extensive compilation of
 IV ANSI/UL 864, Standard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire             provisions covering broad subject matter or that is suitable for
                                                                                 adoption into law independently of other codes and standards.
   Alarm Systems, 10th edition, 2014.                                            3.2.4 Labeled. Equipment or materials to which has been

 D ANSI/UL 985, Standard for Household Fire Warning System
IN Units, 6th edition, 2015.

      ANSI/UL 1484, Standard for Residential Gas Detectors, 5th
   edition, 2016.

 R ANSI/UL 1638, Visible Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and

   Signaling Systems, Including Accessories, 5th edition, 2016.

 FO ANSI/UL 1730, Standard for Smoke Detector Monitors and Acces-
sories for Individual Living Units of Multifamily Residences and                 attached a label, symbol, or other identifying mark of an organ-
Hotel/Motel Rooms, 4th edition, 2006, revised 2012.
                                                                                 ization that is acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction
                                                                                 and concerned with product evaluation, that maintains peri-
   ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for Signaling Devices for the Hearing                  odic inspection of production of labeled equipment or materi-
Impaired, 3rd edition, 2002, revised 2013.                                       als, and by whose labeling the manufacturer indicates

ANSI/UL 1981, Central Station Automation Systems, 3rd                            compliance with appropriate standards or performance in a
edition, 2014, revised 2015.                                                     specified manner.

   ANSI/UL 2017, Standard for General-Purpose Signaling Devices                  3.2.5* Listed. Equipment, materials, or services included in a
and Systems, 2nd edition, 2008, revised 2016.                                    list published by an organization that is acceptable to the
                                                                                 authority having jurisdiction and concerned with evaluation of
   ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for Single and Multiple Station Carbon                 products or services, that maintains periodic inspection of
Monoxide Alarms, February 2008, revised February 2009.                           production of listed equipment or materials or periodic evalua-
                                                                                 tion of services, and whose listing states that either the equip-

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 DEFINITIONS                                                       72-21

ment, material, or service meets appropriate designated                          3.3.12 Alarm Box.
standards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified
purpose.                                                                         3.3.12.1 Auxiliary Alarm Box. An alarm box that can only
                                                                                 be operated from one or more remote initiating devices or
3.2.6 Shall. Indicates a mandatory requirement.                                  an auxiliary alarm system used to send an alarm to the
                                                                                 communications center. (SIG-PRS)
3.2.7 Should. Indicates a recommendation or that which is
advised but not required.                                                        3.3.12.2 Combination Fire Alarm and Guard's Tour Box. A
                                                                                 manually operated box for separately transmitting a fire
3.3 General Definitions.                                                         alarm signal and a distinctive guard patrol tour supervisory

3.3.1 Accessible (as applied to equipment). Admitting close                      signal. (SIG-IDS)

   approach; not guarded by locked doors, elevation, or other                        3.3.12.3* Manual Fire Alarm Box. A manually operated
   effective means. [70:100] (SIG-FUN)                                               device used to initiate a fire alarm signal. (SIG-IDS)
   3.3.2 Accessible (as applied to wiring methods). Capable of                       3.3.12.4 Master Alarm Box. A publicly accessible alarm box
   being removed or exposed without damaging the building                            that can also be operated by one or more remote initiating
                                                                                     devices or an auxiliary alarm system used to send an alarm
Y structure or finish or not permanently closed in by the struc-                     to the communications center. (SIG-PRS)
                                                                                     3.3.12.5 Publicly Accessible Alarm Box. An enclosure, accessi-
   ture or finish of the building. [70:100] (SIG-FUN)                                ble to the public, housing a manually operated transmitter
                                                                                     used to send an alarm to the communications center. (SIG-
L 3.3.3 Accessible, Readily (Readily Accessible). Capable of                         PRS)
N being reached quickly for operation, renewal, or inspections                   3.3.13 Alarm Repeater System. A device or system for the
                                                                                 purpose of automatically retransmitting alarm information
   without requiring those to whom ready access is requisite to                  received by the alarm processing equipment. (SIG-PRS)
                                                                                 3.3.14 Alarm Service. The service required following the
O take actions such as to use tools (other and keys), to climb over              receipt of an alarm signal. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                 3.3.15 Alarm Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.
   or under, to remove obstacles, or to resort to portable ladders,              3.3.16 Alarm System. See 3.3.111, Fire Alarm System; 3.3.291,
   and so forth. [70:100] (SIG-FUN)                                              Supervising Station Alarm Systems; 3.3.221, Public Emergency
                                                                                 Alarm Reporting System; 3.3.90.1.2, In-Building Fire Emer-
E 3.3.4 Accessible Spaces (as applied to detection coverage in                   gency Voice/Alarm Communication System; and 3.3.90.1.3, In-
S Chapter 17). Spaces or concealed areas of construction that                    Building Mass Notification System.
                                                                                 3.3.17 Alarm Verification Feature. A feature of automatic fire
   can be entered via openable panels, doors hatches, or other                   detection and alarm systems to reduce unwanted alarms
                                                                                 wherein smoke detectors report alarm conditions for a mini-
U readily movable elements (e.g., ceiling tiles). (SIG-IDS)                      mum period of time, or confirm alarm conditions within a
                                                                                 given time period after being reset, in order to be accepted as a
   3.3.5 Acknowledge. To confirm that a message or signal has                    valid alarm initiation signal. (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                 3.3.18 Alert Tone. An attention-getting signal to alert occu-
L been received, such as by the pressing of a button or the selec-               pants of the pending transmission of a voice message. (SIG-
                                                                                 PRO)
   tion of a software command. (SIG-SSS)                                         3.3.19 Analog Initiating Device (Sensor). See 3.3.141, Initiat-
                                                                                 ing Device.
A 3.3.6* Acoustically Distinguishable Space (ADS). An emer-                      3.3.20* Ancillary Functions. Non-emergency activations of the
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U gency communications system notification zone, or subdivisionfire alarm or mass notification audible, visual, and textual

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} thereof, that might be an enclosed or otherwise physically

ID defined space, or that might be distinguished from other

   spaces because of different acoustical, environmental, or use
   characteristics, such as reverberation time and ambient sound

IV pressure level. (SIG-NAS)

   3.3.7 Active Multiplex System. A multiplexing system in

D which signaling devices such as transponders are employed to

   transmit status signals of each initiating device or initiating

IN device circuit within a prescribed time interval so that the lack

   of receipt of such a signal can be interpreted as a trouble
   signal. (SIG-SSS)

R 3.3.8 Addressable Device. A fire alarm system component

   with discrete identification that can have its status individually

Oidentified or that is used to individually control other func-
Ftions. (SIG-IDS)
3.3.9 Adverse Condition. Any condition occurring in a                            output circuits. (SIG-ECS)

communications or transmission channel that interferes with                      3.3.21 Annunciator. A unit containing one or more indicator
the proper transmission or interpretation, or both, of status
change signals at the supervising station. (See also 3.3.263.10,                 lamps, alphanumeric displays, or other equivalent means in
Trouble Signal.) (SIG-SSS)                                                       which each indication provides status information about a
                                                                                 circuit, condition, or location. (SIG-FUN)

   3.3.10 Air Sampling­Type Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.                      3.3.22 Apartment Building. A building or portion thereof
   3.3.11 Alarm. An indication of the existence of a condition                   containing three or more dwelling units with independent
   that requires immediate response. (SIG-FUN)                                   cooking and bathroom facilities. (SIG-HOU) [5000, 2018]
N 3.3.11.1 Carbon Monoxide Alarm. A single-or multiple-                          3.3.23 Audible Notification Appliance. See 3.3.182, Notifica-
                                                                                 tion Appliance.
       station alarm responsive to carbon monoxide (CO).
       (SIG-HOU)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-22                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

3.3.24 Automatic Extinguishing System Supervisory Device. N 3.3.35 Carbon Monoxide Detection System. A system or
See 3.3.141, Initiating Device.                                                    portion of a combination system that consists of a control unit,
                                                                 components, and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate
3.3.25 Automatic Fire Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.            the status of carbon monoxide alarm initiating devices and to

3.3.26 Automatic Fire Extinguishing or Suppression System                          initiate the appropriate response to those signals. (SIG-PRO)

Operation Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.                        N 3.3.35.1 Combination Carbon Monoxide Detection System. A

3.3.27 Autonomous Control Unit (ACU). See 3.3.63, Control                          carbon monoxide detection system in which components
                                                                                   are used, in whole or in part, in common with a non­carbon
Unit.                                                                              monoxide signaling system, and in which components are

3.3.28 Auxiliary Alarm System. See 3.3.221, Public Emer-                           not used as part of a fire alarm system. (SIG-PRO)
gency Alarm Reporting System.
                                                                 N 3.3.35.2 Household Carbon Monoxide Detection System. A
   3.3.29 Auxiliary Box. See 3.3.12, Alarm Box.                                        system of devices that uses a control unit to produce an
   3.3.30* Average Ambient Sound Level. The root mean                                  alarm signal in the household for the purpose of notifying
   square, A-weighted, sound pressure level measured over the                          the occupants of the presence of concentrations of carbon
                                                                                       monoxide that could pose a life safety risk. (SIG-HOU)
Y period of time that any person is present, or a 24-hour period,                  3.3.36 Carrier. High-frequency energy that can be modulated
L whichever time period is the lesser. (SIG-NAS)                                   by voice or signaling impulses. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                   3.3.37 Carrier System. A means of conveying a number of
N 3.3.31* Battery. Two or more cells connected together electri-                   channels over a single path by modulating each channel on a
                                                                                   different carrier frequency and demodulating at the receiving
N cally. (SIG-TMS)                                                                 point to restore the signals to their original form. (SIG-SSS)
O N 3.3.31.1 Battery Capacity. The electrical energy available                     3.3.38 Ceiling. The upper surface of a space, regardless of
                                                                                   height. Areas with a suspended ceiling have two ceilings, one
       from a fully charged battery expressed in ampere-hours.                     visible from the floor and one above the suspended ceiling.
       (SIG-TMS)                                                                   (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                       3.3.38.1 Level Ceilings. Ceilings that have a slope of less
E N 3.3.31.2 Battery Charger. A device used to restore and                             than or equal to 1 in 8. (SIG-IDS)
 S maintain the charge of a secondary battery in which electri-                        3.3.38.2 Sloping Ceiling. A ceiling that has a slope of more
                                                                                       than 1 in 8. (SIG-IDS)
       cal energy is converted to chemical energy. (SIG-TMS)                           3.3.38.3* Sloping Peaked-Type Ceiling. A ceiling in which the
                                                                                       ceiling slopes in two directions from the highest point.
U N 3.3.31.2.1 Float Charge. A constant-voltage charge applied                         Curved or domed ceilings can be considered peaked with
       to a battery to maintain it in a fully charged condition.                       the slope figured as the slope of the chord from highest to
 L (SIG-TMS)                                                                           lowest point. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                       3.3.38.4* Sloping Shed-Type Ceiling. A ceiling in which the
A N 3.3.31.2.2 Fully Charged. A condition synonymous with                              high point is at one side with the slope extending toward
       100 percent state of charge. (See also 3.3.31.2.3, State of                     the opposite side. (SIG-IDS)
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Charge.) (SIG-TMS)                                            3.3.39 Ceiling Height. The height from the continuous floor
                                                                                   of a room to the continuous ceiling of a room or space.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 3.3.31.2.3 State of Charge (SOC). The stored or remaining(SIG-IDS)
       capacity of a battery at a given time expressed as a percent-               3.3.40 Ceiling Surfaces.
       age of its rated capacity. (SIG-TMS)                                            3.3.40.1 Beam Construction. Ceilings that have solid struc-
                                                                                       tural or solid nonstructural members projecting down from
IV N 3.3.31.2.4 Trickle Charge. A continuous, low-rate, constant-                      the ceiling surface more than 4 in. (100 mm) and spaced
       current charge given to a cell or battery to keep the unit                      more than 36 in. (910 mm), center to center. (SIG-IDS)
 D fully charged. (See also 3.3.31.2.1, Float Charge.) (SIG-TMS)

IN N 3.3.31.3 Battery Load Test. A controlled discharge of a
       battery at a specified rate for a given period of time until a
       final voltage is achieved to determine battery capacity.
       (SIG-TMS)

R N 3.3.31.4 Battery Unit. See 3.3.41.3, Unit (Multi-Cell).
 O (SIG-TMS)

N 3.3.31.5 Rechargeable Battery. An electrochemical cell capa-

 Fble of being discharged and then recharged. (SIG-TMS)

3.3.32 Beam Construction. See 3.3.40, Ceiling Surfaces.                            3.3.40.2 Girder. A support for beams or joists that runs at

3.3.33 Building Fire Alarm System. See 3.3.111, Fire Alarm                         right angles to the beams or joists. If the top of the girder is
   System.                                                                         within 4 in. (100 mm) of the ceiling, the girder is a factor in
N· 3.3.34 Building System Information Unit (BSIU). A                               determining the number of detectors and is to be consid-
                                                                                   ered a beam. If the top of the girder is more than 4 in.
   computer-based electronic device that is intended to display                    (100 mm) from the ceiling, the girder is not a factor in
   building information and execute system control functions,                      detector location. (SIG-IDS)
   including fire system information display and control.

2019 Edition                     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                           DEFINITIONS                                                           72-23

3.3.40.3* Smooth Ceiling. A ceiling surface uninterrupted                     3.3.48 Circuit. Either a means of providing power or a
by continuous projections, such as solid joists, beams, or                    connection path between locations (see 3.3.197). (SIG-PRO)
ducts, extending more than 4 in. (100 mm) below the ceil-                     3.3.49 Circuit Interface. See 3.3.146, Interface.
ing surface. (SIG-IDS)

3.3.40.4 Solid Joist Construction. Ceilings that have solid                   3.3.50 Cloud Chamber Smoke Detection. See 3.3.276, Smoke
structural or solid nonstructural members projecting down                     Detection.

from the ceiling surface for a distance of more than 4 in.                    3.3.51* Coded. An audible or visual signal that conveys
(100 mm) and spaced at intervals of 36 in. (910 mm) or less,                  several discrete bits or units of information. (SIG-NAS)
center to center. (SIG-IDS)                                                   3.3.52 Combination Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.

N 3.3.41 Cell. The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by               3.3.53 Combination Emergency Communications Systems.
an anode and a cathode, used to receive, store, and deliver
   electrical energy. [70:480] (SIG-TMS)                                      See 3.3.91, Emergency Communications Systems -- Combina-
N 3.3.41.1 Primary (Dry) Cell. A nonrechargeable electro-                     tion.
                                                                              3.3.54 Combination Fire Alarm and Guard's Tour Box. See
       chemical cell requiring periodic replacement, such as a                3.3.12, Alarm Box.
                                                                              3.3.55 Combination System. See 3.3.111, Fire Alarm System.
 Y 9-volt alkaline cell. (SIG-FUN)                                            3.3.56 Common Talk Mode. See 3.3.301, Talk Mode.
L N 3.3.41.2 Starved Electrolyte Cell. A cell in which liquid elec-           3.3.57* Communications Center. A building or portion of a
 N trolyte is immobilized, also known as an absorbed glass mat                building that is specifically configured for the primary purpose
                                                                              of providing emergency communications services or public
       (AGM) cell or a gelled electrolyte cell (gel cell). (SIG-TMS)          safety answering point (PSAP) services to one or more public
                                                                              safety agencies under the authority or authorities having juris-
O N 3.3.41.2.1 Absorbed Glass Mat (AGM) Cell. A cell in which                 diction. [1221, 2016] (SIG-PRS)
       the liquid electrolyte is immobilized in fiberglass or poly-           3.3.58 Communications Channel. See 3.3.47, Channel.
       meric fiber separators. (SIG-TMS)                                      3.3.59 Communications Circuit. Any signaling path of an
                                                                              emergency communications system that carries voice, audio,
E N 3.3.41.2.2 Gelled Electrolyte Cell (Gel Cell). A cell in which            data, or other signals. (SIG-ECS)
 S the electrolyte is immobilized by addition of a gelling agent.             3.3.60 Communications Cloud. The area in the communica-
                                                                              tions path that is supported by providers of communications
       (SIG-TMS)                                                              services not governed under the scope of NFPA 72 in which
                                                                              signals travel between a protected property and a monitoring
U N 3.3.41.3 Unit (Multi-Cell). Multiple cells in a single                    station. Depending on the type of transmission that is used,
 L container, such as a 12-volt unit composed of six 2-volt cells.            signals can travel on a single defined route or through various
                                                                              routes depending on what is available when the signal is initi-
       (SIG-TMS)                                                              ated. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                              3.3.61* Condition. A situation, environmental state, or equip-
A N 3.3.41.4* Valve-Regulated Lead-Acid (VRLA) Cell. A sealed                 ment state of a fire alarm or signaling system. (SIG-FUN)
       lead-acid cell with a valve that opens to the atmosphere
                                                                                  3.3.61.1 Abnormal (Off-Normal) Condition. A situation, envi-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U when the internal pressure in the cell exceeds atmospheric    ronmental state, or equipment state that warrants some type
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} pressure by a preselected amount. (SIG-TMS)                of signal, notification, communication, response, action, or
                                                                                  service. (SIG-FUN)
ID 3.3.42 Central Station. See 3.3.290.1, Central Supervising                     3.3.61.1.1* Alarm Condition. An abnormal condition that
                                                                                  poses an immediate threat to life, property, or mission.
   Station.                                                                       (SIG-FUN)

IV 3.3.43 Central Station Alarm System. See 3.3.291.1, Central

   Station Service Alarm System.

D 3.3.44 Central Station Service. See 3.3.292, Supervising
IN Station Service.

   3.3.45 Central Station Service Alarm System. See 3.3.291,
   Supervising Station Alarm Systems.

R 3.3.46 Central Supervising Station. See 3.3.290, Supervising

   Station.

O3.3.47 Channel. A path for voice or signal transmission that
Fuses modulation of light or alternating current within a
frequency band. (SIG-SSS)                                                     3.3.61.1.2* Pre-Alarm Condition. An abnormal condition

3.3.47.1 Communications Channel. A circuit or path                            that poses a potential threat to life, property, or mission,
connecting a subsidiary station(s) to a supervising station(s)                and time is available for investigation. (SIG-FUN)

over which signals are carried. (SIG-SSS)                                     3.3.61.1.3* Supervisory Condition. An abnormal condition

3.3.47.2* Radio Channel. A band of frequencies of a width                     in connection with the supervision of other systems,
sufficient to allow its use for radio communications.                         processes, or equipment. (SIG-FUN)

(SIG-SSS)                                                                     3.3.61.1.4* Trouble Condition. An abnormal condition in a

3.3.47.3 Transmission Channel. A circuit or path connecting                   system due to a fault. (SIG-FUN)

transmitters to supervising stations or subsidiary stations on                3.3.61.2 Normal Condition. Circuits, systems, and compo-
which signals are carried. (SIG-SSS)                                          nents are functioning as designed and no abnormal condi-

                                                                              tion exists. (SIG-FUN)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-24                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

3.3.62 Contiguous Property. See 3.3.213, Property.                     3.3.70.3 Automatic Fire Extinguishing or Suppression System
                                                                       Operation Detector. A device that automatically detects the
3.3.63 Control Unit. A system component that monitors                  operation of a fire extinguishing or suppression system by
inputs and controls outputs through various types of circuits.         means appropriate to the system employed. (SIG-IDS)
(SIG-PRO)
                                                                       3.3.70.4* Combination Detector. A device that either
3.3.63.1* Autonomous Control Unit (ACU). The primary                   responds to more than one of the fire phenomena or
control unit for an in-building mass notification system.              employs more than one operating principle to sense one of
(SIG-ECS)                                                              these phenomena. Typical examples are a combination of a

3.3.63.2 Emergency Communications Control Unit (ECCU). A               heat detector with a smoke detector or a combination rate-
system capable of sending mass notification messages to                of-rise and fixed-temperature heat detector. This device has
                                                                       listings for each sensing method employed. (SIG-IDS)
individual buildings, zones of buildings, individual outdoor
       loudspeaker arrays, or zones of outdoor loudspeaker arrays;
       or a building, multiple buildings, outside areas, or a combi-   3.3.70.5 Electrical Conductivity Heat Detector. A line-type or
       nation of these. (SIG-ECS)                                      spot-type sensing element in which resistance varies as a
                                                                       function of temperature. (SIG-IDS)
 Y 3.3.63.3 Fire Alarm Control Unit (FACU). See 3.3.108, Fire          3.3.70.6 Fire­Gas Detector. A device that detects gases
 L Alarm Control Unit (FACU).                                          produced by a fire. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                       3.3.70.7* Fixed-Temperature Detector. A device that responds
       3.3.63.4 Wireless Control Unit. A component that transmits/     when its operating element becomes heated to a predeter-
                                                                       mined level. (SIG-IDS)
 N receives and processes wireless signals. (SIG-PRO)                  3.3.70.8* Flame Detector. A radiant energy­sensing fire
O 3.3.64 Day-Care Home. A building or portion of a building in         detector that detects the radiant energy emitted by a flame.
                                                                       (Refer to A.17.8.2.) (SIG-IDS)
   which more than 3 but not more than 12 clients receive care,        3.3.70.9 Gas Detector. A device that detects the presence of
   maintenance, and supervision, by other than their relative(s)       a specified gas concentration. Gas detectors can be either
                                                                       spot-type or line-type detectors. (SIG-IDS)
E or legal guardian(s), for less than 24 hours per day. [101, 2018]    3.3.70.10 Heat Detector. A fire detector that detects either
                                                                       abnormally high temperature or rate-of-temperature rise, or
   (SIG-HOU)                                                           both. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                       3.3.70.11 Line-Type Detector. A device in which detection is
S 3.3.65 Dedicated Function Fire Alarm Control Unit. See               continuous along a path. Typical examples are rate-of-rise
U 3.3.108, Fire Alarm Control Unit (FACU).                             pneumatic tubing detectors, projected beam smoke detec-
                                                                       tors, and heat-sensitive cable. (SIG-IDS)
   3.3.66 Dedicated Function Fire Alarm System. See 3.3.111,           3.3.70.12* Multi-Criteria Detector. A device that contains
                                                                       multiple sensors that separately respond to physical stimulus
L Fire Alarm System.                                                   such as heat, smoke, or fire gases, or employs more than
A 3.3.67 Deficiency. A condition that interferes with the service      one sensor to sense the same stimulus. This sensor is capa-
                                                                       ble of generating only one alarm signal from the sensors
   or reliability for which the part, system, or equipment was         employed in the design either independently or in combina-
                                                                       tion. The sensor output signal is mathematically evaluated
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U intended. (SIG-TMS)                                to determine when an alarm signal is warranted. The evalua-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.3.68 Delinquency Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.tion can be performed either at the detector or at the
                                                                       control unit. This detector has a single listing that estab-
N 3.3.69* Design Professional. An individual who is registered         lishes the primary function of the detector. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                       3.3.70.13* Multi-Sensor Detector. A device that contains
IV or licensed to practice their respective design profession as       multiple sensors that separately respond to physical stimulus

   defined by the statutory requirements of the professional regis-
   tration laws of the jurisdiction in which the project is to be

D constructed, or other professional with qualifications or

   credentials acceptable to the jurisdiction in which the project is

IN to be constructed. (SIG-ECS)

   3.3.70 Detector. A device suitable for connection to a circuit
   that has a sensor that responds to a physical stimulus such as

R gas, heat, or smoke. (SIG-IDS)
       3.3.70.1 Air Sampling­Type Detector. A detector that consists
 O of a piping or tubing distribution network that runs from
 Fthe detector to the area(s) to be protected. An aspiration
fan in the detector housing draws air from the protected               such as heat, smoke, or fire gases, or employs more than
area back to the detector through airsampling ports, piping,
or tubing. At the detector, the air is analyzed for fire prod-         one sensor to sense the same stimulus. A device capable of
ucts. (SIG-IDS)                                                        generating multiple alarm signals from any one of the
                                                                       sensors employed in the design, independently or in combi-
                                                                       nation. The sensor output signals are mathematically evalu-
3.3.70.2 Automatic Fire Detector. A device designed to detect          ated to determine when an alarm signal is warranted. The
the presence of a fire signature and to initiate action. For           evaluation can be performed either at the detector or at the
the purpose of this Code, automatic fire detectors are classi-         control unit. This device has listings for each sensing
fied as follows: Automatic Fire Extinguishing or Suppression           method employed. (SIG-IDS)
System Operation Detector, Fire­Gas Detector, Heat Detec-
tor, Other Fire Detectors, Radiant Energy­Sensing Fire
Detector, and Smoke Detector. (SIG-IDS)

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   DEFINITIONS                                                   72-25

3.3.70.14 Other Fire Detectors. Devices that detect a           3.3.74 Digital Alarm Communicator Transmitter (DACT). A
phenomenon other than heat, smoke, flame, or gases              system component at the protected premises to which initiating
produced by a fire. (SIG-IDS)                                   devices or groups of devices are connected. The DACT seizes
                                                                the connected telephone line, dials a preselected number to
3.3.70.15 Pneumatic Rate-of-Rise Tubing Heat Detector. A line-  connect to a DACR, and transmits signals indicating a status
type detector comprising small-diameter tubing, usually         change of the initiating device. (SIG-SSS)
copper, that is installed on the ceiling or high on the walls
throughout the protected area. The tubing is terminated in      3.3.75 Digital Alarm Radio Receiver (DARR). A system
a detector unit containing diaphragms and associated            component composed of two subcomponents: one that
contacts set to actuate at a predetermined pressure. The                          receives and decodes radio signals, the other that annunciates
system is sealed except for calibrated vents that compensate                      the decoded data. These two subcomponents can be coresident
for normal changes in temperature. (SIG-IDS)                    at the central station or separated by means of a data transmis-
                                                                                  sion channel. (SIG-SSS)
       3.3.70.16 Projected Beam­Type Detector. A type of photoelec-               3.3.76 Digital Alarm Radio System (DARS). A system in which
       tric light obscuration smoke detector wherein the beam                     signals are transmitted from a digital alarm radio transmitter
       spans the protected area. (SIG-IDS)                                        (DART) located at a protected premises through a radio chan-
                                                                                  nel to a digital alarm radio receiver (DARR). (SIG-SSS)
 Y 3.3.70.17 Radiant Energy­Sensing Fire Detector. A device that                  3.3.77 Digital Alarm Radio Transmitter (DART). A system
 L detects radiant energy, such as ultraviolet, visible, or infra-                component that is connected to or an integral part of a digital
                                                                                  alarm communicator transmitter (DACT) that is used to
       red, that is emitted as a product of combustion reaction and               provide an alternate radio transmission channel. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                  3.3.78 Display. The visible representation of output data,
 N obeys the laws of optics. (SIG-IDS)                                            other than printed copy. (SIG-NAS)
                                                                                  3.3.79 Distributed Recipient Mass Notification System
       3.3.70.18* Rate Compensation Detector. A device that                       (DRMNS). See 3.3.90, Emergency Communications System.
                                                                                  3.3.80 Dormitory. A building or a space in a building in
 O responds when the temperature of the air surrounding the                       which group sleeping accommodations are provided for more
                                                                                  than 16 persons who are not members of the same family in
       device reaches a predetermined level, regardless of the rate-              one room, or a series of closely associated rooms, under joint
                                                                                  occupancy and single management, with or without meals, but
 E of-temperature rise. (SIG-IDS)                                                 without individual cooking facilities. [101, 2018] (SIG-HOU)
 S 3.3.70.19* Rate-of-Rise Detector. A device that responds                       3.3.81* Double Doorway. A single opening that has no inter-
                                                                                  vening wall space or door trim separating the two doors.
       when the temperature rises at a rate exceeding a predeter-                 (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                  3.3.82 Downlink. The radio signal from the base station trans-
 U mined value. (SIG-IDS)                                                         mitter to the portable public safety subscriber receiver.
                                                                                  (SIG-ECS)
       3.3.70.20 Smoke Detector. A device that detects visible or                 3.3.83 Dwelling Unit. One or more rooms arranged for
                                                                                  complete, independent housekeeping purposes with space for
 L invisible particles of combustion. (SIG-IDS)                                   eating, living, and sleeping; facilities for cooking; and provi-
 A 3.3.70.21 Spark/Ember Detector. A radiant energy­sensing                       sions for sanitation. [5000, 2018] (SIG-HOU)

       fire detector that is designed to detect sparks or embers, or                  3.3.83.1 Multiple Dwelling Unit. A building containing
                                                                                      three or more dwelling units. (SIG-HOU)
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U both. These devices are normally intended to operate in           3.3.83.2 Single Dwelling Unit. A building consisting solely of
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} dark environments and in the infrared part of the spectrum.    one dwelling unit. (SIG-HOU)
 ID (SIG-IDS)
       3.3.70.22 Spot-Type Detector. A device in which the detect-
 IV ing element is concentrated at a particular location. Typical
       examples are bimetallic detectors, fusible alloy detectors,
       certain pneumatic rate-of-rise detectors, certain smoke
 D detectors, and thermoelectric detectors. (SIG-IDS)

IN 3.3.71* Device (Class N). A supervised component of a life

   safety system that communicates with other components of life
   safety systems and that collects environmental data or performs
   specific input or output functions necessary to the operation of

R the life safety system. (SIG-PRO)
O3.3.72 Digital Alarm Communicator Receiver (DACR). A

   system component that accepts and displays signals from digital

Falarm communicator transmitters (DACTs) sent over a
managed facilities-based voice network. (SIG-SSS)                                 3.3.84 Effective Masked Threshold. The minimum sound

3.3.73 Digital Alarm Communicator System (DACS). A system                         level at which the tone signal is audible in ambient noise.
in which signals are transmitted from a digital alarm communi-                    (SIG-NAS)

cator transmitter (DACT) located at the protected premises                        3.3.85 Electrical Conductivity Heat Detector. See 3.3.70,
through a managed facilities-based voice network to a digital                     Detector.
alarm communicator receiver (DACR). (SIG-SSS)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-26                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N 3.3.86 Electromechanical Releasing Device. Mechanical devi-                   3.3.91 Emergency Communications Systems -- Combination.
ces, including fusible links, electrically monitored for contact                Various emergency communications systems such as fire alarm,
closure to initiate a signal to the FACU.                                       mass notification, fire fighter communications, area of refuge
                                                                                communications, elevator communications, or others that can
3.3.87* Ember. A particle of solid material that emits radiant                  be served through a single control system or through an inter-
energy due either to its temperature or the process of combus-                  connection of several control systems. (SIG-ECS)
tion on its surface. (See also 3.3.282, Spark.) (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                3.3.92* Emergency Communications System -- Emergency
3.3.88 Emergency Command Center. See 3.3.92, Emergency                          Command Center. The room(s) or area(s) staffed during any
Communications System -- Emergency Command Center.                              emergency event by assigned emergency management staff.

3.3.89 Emergency Communications Control Unit (ECCU).                            The room or area contains system communications and control
                                                                                equipment serving one or more buildings where responsible
See 3.3.63, Control Unit.                                                       authorities receive information from premises sources or

3.3.90 Emergency Communications System. A system for the                           systems or from (higher level) regional or national sources or
protection of life by indicating the existence of an emergency                     systems and then disseminate appropriate information to indi-
situation and communicating information necessary to facili-                       viduals, a building, multiple buildings, outside campus areas, or
                                                                                   a combination of these in accordance with the emergency
Y tate an appropriate response and action. (SIG-ECS)                               response plan established for the premises. The room or area
L 3.3.90.1 One-Way Emergency Communications System. One-                           contains the controls and indicators from which the ECS
                                                                                   systems located in the room or area can be manually controlled
    way emergency communications systems are intended to                           as required by the emergency response plan and the emer-
                                                                                   gency management coordinator. (SIG-ECS)
N broadcast information, in an emergency, to people in one                         3.3.93* Emergency Control Function Interface Device. A
                                                                                   listed fire alarm or signaling system component that directly
    or more specified indoor or outdoor areas. It is intended                      interfaces with the system that operates the emergency control
                                                                                   function. (SIG-PRO)
O that emergency messages be conveyed either by audible,                           3.3.94* Emergency Control Functions. Building, fire, and
                                                                                   emergency control elements or systems that are initiated by the
    visual, or textual means, or any combination thereof.                          fire alarm or signaling system and either increase the level of
    (SIG-ECS)                                                                      life safety for occupants or control the spread of the harmful
                                                                                   effects of fire or other dangerous products. (SIG-PRO)
E 3.3.90.1.1 Distributed Recipient Mass Notification System                     N 3.3.95* Emergency Response Agency (ERA). Organizations
S (DRMNS). A distributed recipient mass notification system                        providing law enforcement, emergency medical, fire, rescue,
                                                                                   communications, and related support services. [1221, 2019]
    is a system meant to communicate directly to targeted indi-                    (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                   3.3.96* Emergency Response Facility (ERF). A structure or a
U viduals and groups that might not be in a contiguous area.                       portion of a structure that houses emergency response agency
                                                                                   equipment or personnel for response to alarms. [1221, 2019]
    (SIG-ECS)                                                                      (SIG-PRS)
                                                                                   3.3.97 Emergency Response Plan. A documented set of
L 3.3.90.1.2 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice/Alarm Communica-                     actions to address the planning for, management of, and
A tions System. Dedicated manual or automatic equipment for                        response to natural, technological, and man-made disasters
                                                                                   and other emergencies. (SIG-ECS)
    originating and distributing voice instructions, as well as                    3.3.98* Endpoint (Class N). The end of a pathway where a
                                                                                   single addressable device or a control unit is connected.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U alert and evacuation signals pertaining to a fire emergency,   (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                N 3.3.99* Energy Storage Systems (ESS). Equipment that
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} to the occupants of a building. (SIG-ECS)

ID 3.3.90.1.3 In-Building Mass Notification System. A system

    used to provide information and instructions to people in a

IV building(s) or other space using intelligible voice communi-

    cations and including visual signals, text, graphics, tactile, or
    other communication methods. (SIG-ECS)

D 3.3.90.1.4 Wide-Area Mass Notification System. Wide-area
IN mass notification systems are generally installed to provide

    real-time information to outdoor areas and could have the
    capability to communicate with other notification systems
    provided for a campus, military base, municipality, or similar

R single or multiple contiguous areas. (SIG-ECS)
O 3.3.90.2 Two-Way Emergency Communications System. Two-

    way emergency communications systems are divided into

Ftwo categories, those systems that are anticipated to be used
by building occupants and those systems that are to be used                     receives electrical energy and then provides a means to store
                                                                                that energy in some form for later use in order to supply elec-
by fire fighters, police, and other emergency services                          trical energy when needed. The energy storage system utilizes
personnel. Two-way emergency communications systems are                         the technologies defined in 3.3.99.2 through 3.3.99.4.
used to both exchange information and to communicate
information such as, but not limited to, instructions,
acknowledgement of receipt of messages, condition of local        N             3.3.99.1 Chemical Energy Storage System. Consists of hydro-
environment, and condition of persons, and to give assur-                       gen storage, the hydrogen generator to supply the hydrogen
ance that help is on the way. (SIG-ECS)                                         for storage, and a fuel cell power system to provide electric
                                                                                energy upon demand.

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                              DEFINITIONS                                                        72-27

N 3.3.99.2 Electrochemical Energy Storage System. Consists of a        3.3.109 Fire Alarm/Evacuation Signal Tone Generator. A
       secondary battery, electrochemical capacitor, flow battery, or  device that produces a fire alarm/evacuation tone upon
       hybrid battery-capacitor system that stores energy and any      command. (SIG-PRO)
       associated controls or devices that can provide electric        3.3.110 Fire Alarm Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.
       energy upon demand.

N 3.3.99.3 Mechanical Energy Storage System. Consists of a             3.3.111 Fire Alarm System. A system or portion of a combina-
       mechanical means to store energy such as through                tion system that consists of components and circuits arranged
       compressed air, pumped water or fly wheel technologies,         to monitor and annunciate the status of fire alarm or supervi-
       and associated controls and systems, which can be used to       sory signal-initiating devices and to initiate the appropriate
       run an electric generator to provide electric energy upon       response to those signals. (SIG-FUN)

demand.                                                                          3.3.111.1* Combination System. A fire alarm system in which

N 3.3.99.4 Thermal Energy Storage System. Consists of a system                       components are used, in whole or in part, in common with
       that uses heated fluids such as air as a means to store energy                a non-fire signaling system. (SIG-PRO)
       along with associated controls and systems, which can be                      3.3.111.2 Household Fire Alarm System. A system of devices
                                                                                     that uses a fire alarm control unit to produce an alarm
 Y used to run an electric generator to provide electrical                           signal in the household for the purpose of notifying the
                                                                                     occupants of the presence of a fire so that they will evacuate
       energy upon demand.                                                           the premises. (SIG-HOU)
                                                                                     3.3.111.3 Municipal Fire Alarm System. A public emergency
L 3.3.100* Evacuation. The withdrawal of occupants from a                            alarm reporting system. (SIG-PRS)
N building. (SIG-PRO)                                                                3.3.111.4* Protected Premises (Local) Fire Alarm System. A
                                                                                     fire alarm system located at the protected premises.
   3.3.101 Evacuation Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.                                   (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                     3.3.111.4.1 Building Fire Alarm System. A protected prem-
O 3.3.102 Executive Software. See 3.3.279, Software.                                 ises fire alarm system that includes any of the features iden-
E 3.3.103 Exit Marking Audible Notification Appliance. See                           tified in 23.3.3.1 and that serves the general fire alarm needs
                                                                                     of a building or buildings and provides notification.
   3.3.182, Notification Appliance.                                                  (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                     3.3.111.4.2 Dedicated Function Fire Alarm System. A protec-
S N 3.3.104 FACP. Fire Alarm Control Panel. See 3.3.108, Fire                        ted premises fire alarm system installed specifically to
U Alarm Control Unit (FACU).                                                         perform emergency control function(s) where a building
                                                                                     fire alarm system is not required. (SIG-PRO)
   3.3.105 False Alarm. See 3.3.314, Unwanted Alarm.                                 3.3.111.4.3 Releasing Fire Alarm System. A protected prem-
                                                                                     ises fire alarm system that is part of a fire suppression system
L 3.3.106 Field of View. The solid cone that extends out from                        and/or that provides control inputs to a fire suppression
A the detector within which the effective sensitivity of the detec-                  system related to the fire suppression system's sequence of
                                                                                     operations and outputs for other signaling and notification.
   tor is at least 50 percent of its on-axis, listed, or approved sensi-             (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                 3.3.112* Fire Command Center. The principal attended or
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tivity. (SIG-IDS)                                            unattended room or area where the status of the detection,
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.3.107 Fire Alarm Control Interface (FACI). See 3.3.146,alarm communications, control systems, and other emergency
                                                                                 systems is displayed and from which the system(s) can be
   Interface.                                                                    manually controlled. (SIG-ECS)
                                                                                 3.3.113 Fire Extinguisher Electronic Monitoring Device. A
IV 3.3.108* Fire Alarm Control Unit (FACU). A component of                       device connected to a control unit that monitors the fire extin-

   the fire alarm system, provided with primary and secondary
   power sources, which receives signals from initiating devices or

D other fire alarm control units, and processes these signals to

   determine part or all of the required fire alarm system output

IN function(s). (SIG-PRO)
       3.3.108.1 Master Fire Alarm Control Unit. A fire alarm
       control unit that serves the protected premises or portion of
 R the protected premises as a local fire alarm control unit and
       accepts inputs from other fire alarm control units.
 O(SIG-PRO)

F3.3.108.2 Protected Premises (Local) Control Unit. A fire
alarm control unit that serves the protected premises or a                       guisher in accordance with the requirements of NFPA 10.
                                                                                 (SIG-IDS)
portion of the protected premises. (SIG-PRO)

3.3.108.2.1* Dedicated Function Fire Alarm Control Unit. A                       3.3.114 Fire Warden. A building staff member or a tenant
protected premises fire alarm control unit that is intended                      trained to perform assigned duties in the event of a fire emer-
to operate specifically identified emergency control func-                       gency. (SIG-PRO)
tion(s). (SIG-PRO)                                                               3.3.115 Fire Warning Equipment. Any detector, alarm, device,
3.3.108.2.2 Releasing Service Fire Alarm Control Unit. A                         or material related to single- and multiple-station alarms or
protected premises fire alarm control unit specifically listed                   household fire alarm systems. (SIG-HOU)
for releasing service that is part of a fire suppression system                  3.3.116 Fire­Gas Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.
and which provides control outputs to release a fire suppres-
sion agent based on either automatic or manual input.
(SIG-PRO)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-28                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

3.3.117 Fixed-Temperature Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.          3.3.131 High Power Loudspeaker Array (HPLA). High power
                                                                   loudspeaker arrays provide capability for voice and tone
3.3.118 Flame. A body or stream of gaseous material involved       communications to large outdoor areas. (SIG-ECS)
in the combustion process and emitting radiant energy at
specific wavelength bands determined by the combustion N 3.3.132 High Volume Low Speed (HVLS) Fan. A ceiling fan
chemistry of the fuel. In most cases, some portion of the emit-    that is approximately 6 ft (1.8 m) to 24 ft (7.3 m) in diameter
ted radiant energy is visible to the human eye. (SIG-IDS)          with a rotational speed of approximately 30 to 70 revolutions
                                                                   per minute. [13, 2016] (SIG-PRO)
3.3.119 Flame Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.
                                                                      3.3.133 Hotel. A building or groups of buildings under the
3.3.120 Flame Detector Sensitivity. The distance along the            same management in which there are sleeping accommoda-
optical axis of the detector at which the detector can detect a       tions for more than 16 persons and primarily used by transients
fire of specified size and fuel within a given time frame.            for lodging with or without meals. [101, 2018] (SIG-HOU)
(SIG-IDS)                                                             3.3.134 Household Fire Alarm System. See 3.3.111, Fire
3.3.121 Frequency. Minimum and maximum time between                   Alarm System.
events. (SIG-TMS)                                                     3.3.135 Hunt Group. A group of associated telephone lines
                                                                      within which an incoming call is automatically routed to an idle
Y 3.3.121.1 Weekly Frequency. Fifty-two times per year, once          (not busy) telephone line for completion. (SIG-SSS)
L per calendar week.                                                  3.3.136* Identified (as applied to equipment). Recognizable
N 3.3.121.2 Monthly Frequency. Twelve times per year, once            as suitable for the specific purpose, function, use, environment,
                                                                      application, and so forth, where described in a particular Code
    per calendar month.                                               requirement. [70:100] (SIG-PRS)
                                                                   N 3.3.137* Immediately (as used in Chapter 26). Performed
O 3.3.121.3 Quarterly Frequency. Four times per year with a           without unreasonable delay. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                      3.3.138* Impairment. An abnormal condition, during either
    minimum of 2 months, maximum of 4 months.                         a planned or emergency event, where a system, component, or
                                                                      function is inoperable. (SIG-FUN)
E 3.3.121.4 Semiannual Frequency. Twice per year with a mini-         3.3.139* In Writing. A form of correspondence formatted as a
                                                                      letter or document that can be verified upon request.
    mum of 4 months, maximum of 8 months.                             (SIG-FUN)
                                                                      3.3.140 In-Building Mass Notification System. See 3.3.90,
S 3.3.121.5 Annual Frequency. Once per year with a minimum            Emergency Communications System.
U of 9 months, maximum 15 months.                                     3.3.141 Initiating Device. A system component that originates
                                                                      transmission of a change-of-state condition, such as in a smoke
3.3.122 Gateway. A device that is used in the transmission of         detector, manual fire alarm box, or supervisory switch.
                                                                      (SIG-IDS)
L serial data (digital or analog) from the fire alarm control unit
                                                                          3.3.141.1 Analog Initiating Device (Sensor). An initiating
to other building system control units, equipment, or networks            device that transmits a signal indicating varying degrees of
                                                                          condition as contrasted with a conventional initiating
A and/or from other building system control units to the fire             device, which can only indicate an on­off condition.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U alarm control unit. (SIG-PRO)                         (SIG-IDS)
                                                                          3.3.141.2 Automatic Extinguishing System Supervisory Device.
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.3.123 Girder. See 3.3.40, Ceiling Surfaces.        A device that responds to abnormal conditions that could
                                                                          affect the proper operation of an automatic sprinkler system
ID 3.3.124 Guard's Tour Reporting Station. A device that is               or other fire extinguishing system(s) or suppression
                                                                          system(s), including, but not limited to, control valves, pres-
manually or automatically initiated to indicate the route being           sure levels, liquid agent levels and temperatures, pump

IV followed and the timing of a guard's tour. (SIG-IDS)

3.3.125 Guard's Tour Supervisory Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.

D 3.3.126 Guest Room. An accommodation combining living,
IN sleeping, sanitary, and storage facilities within a compartment.

[101, 2018] (SIG-HOU)
3.3.127 Guest Suite. An accommodation with two or more

R contiguous rooms comprising a compartment, with or without

doors between such rooms, that provides living, sleeping, sani-

O tary, and storage facilities. [101, 2018] (SIG-HOU)

3.3.128* Hearing Loss. A full or partial decrease in the ability

Fto detect or comprehend sounds. (SIG-HOU)

3.3.128.1 Profound Hearing Loss. A hearing threshold of            power and running, engine temperature and overspeed,
greater than 90 dB.                                                and room temperature. (SIG-IDS)

3.3.129 Heat Alarm. A single- or multiple-station alarm            3.3.141.3 Nonrestorable Initiating Device. A device in which
responsive to heat. (SIG-HOU)                                      the sensing element is designed to be destroyed in the proc-
                                                                   ess of operation. (SIG-IDS)
    3.3.129.1 Mechanically Powered, Single-Station Heat Alarm. A   3.3.141.4 Restorable Initiating Device. A device in which the
    single-station heat alarm employing a mechanical power         sensing element is not ordinarily destroyed in the process of
    source. (SIG-HOU)                                              operation, whose restoration can be manual or automatic.
3.3.130 Heat Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.                       (SIG-IDS)

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   DEFINITIONS                                                                          72-29

3.3.141.5 Supervisory Signal Initiating Device. An initiating                   3.3.153 Loading Capacity. The maximum number of discrete
device such as a valve supervisory switch, water level indica-                  elements of fire alarm systems permitted to be used in a partic-
tor, or low air pressure switch on a dry pipe sprinkler system                  ular configuration. (SIG-SSS)
in which the change of state signals an off-normal condition
and its restoration to normal of a fire protection or life                      3.3.154 Local Energy­Type Auxiliary Alarm System. See
safety system; or a need for action in connection with guard                    3.3.221, Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System.

tours, fire suppression systems or equipment, or mainte-                        3.3.155* Local Operating Console (LOC). Equipment used
nance features of related systems. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                by authorized personnel and emergency responders to activate
                                                                                and operate an in-building mass notification system. (SIG-ECS)
3.3.142 Initiating Device Circuit. A circuit to which automatic
or manual initiating devices are connected where the signal
received does not identify the individual device operated.                      3.3.156 Lodging or Rooming House. A building or portion
                                                                                thereof that does not qualify as a one- or two-family dwelling,
   (SIG-PRO)                                                                    that provides sleeping accommodations for a total of 16 or
   3.3.143 Inspection Personnel. See 3.3.200, Personnel.                        fewer people on a transient or permanent basis, without
   3.3.144 Intelligibility. The quality or condition of being intel-            personal care services, with or without meals, but without sepa-
                                                                                rate cooking facilities for individual occupants. [101, 2018]
Y ligible. (SIG-NAS)                                                            (SIG-HOU)
L 3.3.145* Intelligible. Capable of being understood; compre-                   3.3.157 Loss of Power. The reduction of available voltage at
N hensible; clear. (SIG-NAS)                                                    the load below the point at which equipment can function as
                                                                                designed. (SIG-FUN)
   3.3.146 Interface.                                                           3.3.158 Low-Power Radio Transmitter/Transceiver. Any
                                                                                device that communicates with associated control/receiving
 O 3.3.146.1 Circuit Interface. A circuit component that inter-                 equipment or other transceivers by low-power radio signals.
                                                                                (SIG-PRO)
       faces initiating devices or control circuits, or both; notifica-         3.3.159 Maintenance. Work, including, but not limited to,
                                                                                repair, replacement, and service, performed to ensure that
 E tion appliances or circuits, or both; system control outputs;                equipment operates properly. (SIG-TMS)
                                                                                3.3.160 Malicious Alarm. See 3.3.314.1, Malicious Alarm.
       and other signaling line circuits to a signaling line circuit.           3.3.161* Managed Facilities-Based Voice Network (MFVN). A
                                                                                physical facilities-based network capable of transmitting real-
 S (SIG-PRO)                                                                    time signals with formats unchanged that is managed, oper-
 U 3.3.146.1.1* Emergency Control Function Interface. The inter-                ated, and maintained by the service provider to ensure service
                                                                                quality and reliability from the subscriber location to the inter-
       face between the fire alarm system emergency control func-               connection point with other MFVN peer networks or the super-
                                                                                vising station. (SIG-SSS)
 L tion interface device and the component controlling the                      3.3.162 Manual Fire Alarm Box. See 3.3.12, Alarm Box.
                                                                                3.3.163* Manufacturer's Published Instructions. Published
       emergency control function. (SIG-PRO)                                    installation and operating documentation provided for each
                                                                                product or component. The documentation includes direc-
 A 3.3.146.1.2 Signaling Line Circuit Interface. A system compo-                tions and necessary information for the intended installation,
                                                                                maintenance, and operation of the product or component.
       nent that connects a signaling line circuit to any combina-              (SIG-TMS)
                                                                                3.3.164* Mass Notification Priority Mode. The mode of oper-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tion of initiating devices, initiating device circuits,     ation whereby all fire alarm occupant notification is superseded
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} notification appliances, notification appliance circuits,by emergency mass notification action. (SIG-ECS)
 ID system control outputs, and other signaling line circuits.                  3.3.165* Mass Notification System. See 3.3.90.1.3, In-Building
       (SIG-PRO)                                                                Mass Notification System. (SIG-PRO)
 IV 3.3.146.2* Fire Alarm Control Interface. The fire alarm
       control interface coordinates signals to and from the fire
 D alarm system and other systems. (SIG-ECS)

   3.3.147 Ionization Smoke Detection. See 3.3.276, Smoke

IN Detection.

   3.3.148 Leg Facility. The portion of a communications chan-
   nel that connects not more than one protected premises to a

R primary or secondary trunk facility. The leg facility includes the

   portion of the signal transmission circuit from its point of

Oconnection with a trunk facility to the point where it is termina-

   ted within the protected premises at one or more transpond-

Fers. (SIG-SSS)

3.3.149 Level Ceilings. See 3.3.38, Ceiling.                                    3.3.166 Master Box. See 3.3.12, Alarm Box.

3.3.150 Life Safety Network. A type of combination system                       3.3.167 Master Fire Alarm Control Unit. See 3.3.108, Fire
that transmits fire and emergency communications system data                    Alarm Control Unit (FACU).
to at least one other life safety system. (SIG-PRO)

3.3.151 Line-Type Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.                               3.3.168 Multi-Criteria Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.

3.3.152 Living Area. Any normally occupiable space in a resi-                   3.3.169 Multiple Dwelling Unit. See 3.3.83, Dwelling Unit.
dential occupancy, other than sleeping rooms or rooms that
are intended for combination sleeping/living, bathrooms,
toilet compartments, kitchens, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces, and similar areas. [101, 2018] (SIG-HOU)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.             2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-30         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

3.3.170 Multiple-Station Alarm. A single-station alarm capable                      3.3.182.1.2* Textual Audible Notification Appliance. A notifi-
of being interconnected to one or more additional alarms so                         cation appliance that conveys a stream of audible informa-
that the actuation of one causes the appropriate alarm signal to                    tion. (SIG-NAS)
operate in all interconnected alarms. (SIG-HOU)                                     3.3.182.2 Tactile Notification Appliance. A notification appli-
3.3.171 Multiple-Station Alarm Device. Two or more single-                          ance that alerts by the sense of touch or vibration. (SIG-
station alarm devices that can be interconnected so that actua-                     NAS)
tion of one causes all integral or separate audible alarms to                       3.3.182.3 Visual Notification Appliance. A notification appli-
operate; or one single-station alarm device having connections                      ance that alerts by the sense of sight. (SIG-NAS)
to other detectors or to a manual fire alarm box. (SIG-HOU)

3.3.172 Multiplexing. A signaling method characterized by                                  3.3.182.3.1* Textual Visual Notification Appliance. A notifica-
simultaneous or sequential transmission, or both, and recep-                               tion appliance that conveys a stream of visual information
tion of multiple signals on a signaling line circuit, a transmis-                          that displays an alphanumeric or pictorial message.
sion channel, or a communications channel, including means                                 (SIG-NAS)
for positively identifying each signal. (SIG-SSS)                                      3.3.183 Notification Appliance Circuit. A circuit or path
                                                                                       directly connected to a notification appliance(s). (SIG-PRO)
Y 3.3.173 Multi-Sensor Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.                                 3.3.184 Notification Zone. See 3.3.328, Zone.
L 3.3.174 Municipal Fire Alarm Box (Street Box). A publicly                            3.3.185 Nuisance Alarm. See 3.3.314.2, Nuisance Alarm.
N accessible alarm box. (See 3.3.12, Alarm Box.)                                       3.3.186* Occupiable. A room or enclosed space designed for
                                                                                       human occupancy. (SIG-FUN)
3.3.175 Municipal Fire Alarm System. See 3.3.111, Fire Alarm                           3.3.187 Occupiable Area. An area of a facility occupied by
                                                                                       people on a regular basis. (SIG-FUN)
O System.                                                                              3.3.188* Octave Band. The bandwidth of a filter that compri-
                                                                                       ses a frequency range of a factor of 2. (SIG-NAS)
3.3.176 Net-Centric Alerting System (NCAS). A net-centric                                  3.3.188.1 One-Third Octave Band. The bandwidth of a filter
                                                                                           that comprises a frequency range of a factor of 213.
E alerting system incorporates web-based management and alert                              (SIG-NAS)
                                                                                     3.3.189 Off-Hook. To access a communications network in
activation application through which all operators and adminis-                        preparation for connecting a telephone. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                       3.3.190 One-Third Octave Band. See 3.3.188, Octave Band.
S trators could gain access to the system's capabilities based on                      3.3.191 One-Way Emergency Communications System. See
                                                                                       3.3.90, Emergency Communications System.
the users' permissions and the defined access policy. (SIG-ECS)                        3.3.192 On-Hook. To disconnect from a managed facilities-
                                                                                       based voice network. (SIG-SSS)
U 3.3.177 Network.                                                                     3.3.193 Operating Mode.
L 3.3.177.1 Wired Network (Public Emergency Alarm Reporting                                3.3.193.1 Private Operating Mode. Audible or visual signal-
                                                                                           ing only to those persons directly concerned with the imple-
    Systems). The method of communications used in a public                                mentation and direction of emergency action initiation and
                                                                                           procedure in the area protected by the fire alarm system.
A emergency alarm reporting system that consists of two or                                 (SIG-NAS)
                                                                                           3.3.193.2 Public Operating Mode. Audible or visual signal-
    more points that are connected by physical conductors.                                 ing to occupants or inhabitants of the area protected by the

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (SIG-PRS)
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.3.177.2 Wireless Network (Public Emergency Alarm Reporting

    Systems). The method of communications used in a public
    emergency alarm reporting system that consists of two or

IV more points that are not connected by physical conductors.

    (SIG-PRS)

D 3.3.178 Network Architecture. The physical and logical

design of a network, and the inherent ability of the design to

IN carry data from one point to another. (SIG-ECS)

3.3.179 Noncontiguous Property. See 3.3.213, Property.

R 3.3.180* Nonrequired. A system component or group of

components that is installed at the option of the owner, and is

O not installed due to a building or fire code requirement.
F(SIG-FUN)
3.3.181 Nonrestorable Initiating Device. See 3.3.141, Initiat-                      fire alarm system. (SIG-NAS)

ing Device.                                                                         3.3.194 Other Fire Detectors. See 3.3.70, Detector.

3.3.182 Notification Appliance. A fire alarm system compo-                          3.3.195* Ownership. Any property or building or its contents
nent such as a bell, horn, loudspeaker, visual notification appli-                  under legal control by the occupant, by contract, or by holding
ance, or text display that provides audible, tactile, or visual                     of a title or deed. (SIG-SSS)
outputs, or any combination thereof. (SIG-NAS)                                      3.3.196 Paging System. A system intended to page one or
                                                                                    more persons by such means as voice over loudspeaker, coded
    3.3.182.1 Audible Notification Appliance. A notification                        audible signals or visual signals, or lamp annunciators. (SIG-
    appliance that alerts by the sense of hearing. (SIG-NAS)                        PRO)
    3.3.182.1.1 Exit Marking Audible Notification Appliance. An                     3.3.197 Path (Pathways). Any circuit, conductor, optic fiber,
    audible notification appliance that marks building exits and                    radio carrier, or other means connecting two or more loca-
    areas of refuge by the sense of hearing for the purpose of                      tions. (SIG-PRO)
    evacuation or relocation. (SIG-NAS)

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   DEFINITIONS                                                   72-31

3.3.198 Pathway Survivability. The ability of any conductor,                3.3.210 Private Operating Mode. See 3.3.193, Operating
optic fiber, radio carrier, or other means for transmitting                 Mode.
system information to remain operational during fire condi-
tions. (SIG-ECS)                                                            3.3.211 Profound Hearing Loss. See 3.3.128, Hearing Loss.

3.3.199 Permanent Visual Record (Recording). An immedi-                     3.3.212 Projected Beam­Type Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.

ately readable, not easily alterable, print, slash, or punch                3.3.213 Property.
record of all occurrences of status change. (SIG-SSS)                           3.3.213.1 Contiguous Property. A single-owner or single-user
3.3.200 Personnel.                                                              protected premises on a continuous plot of ground, includ-

       3.3.200.1 Inspection Personnel. Individuals who conduct a                ing any buildings thereon, that is not separated by a public
       visual examination of a system or portion thereof to verify              thoroughfare, transportation right-of-way, property owned
       that it appears to be in operating condition, in proper loca-            or used by others, or body of water not under the same
       tion, and is free of physical damage or conditions that                  ownership. (SIG-SSS)
       impair operation. (SIG-TMS)                                              3.3.213.2 Noncontiguous Property. An owner- or user-
                                                                                protected premises where two or more protected premises,
 Y 3.3.200.2 Service Personnel. Individuals who perform those                   controlled by the same owner or user, are separated by a
 L procedures, adjustments, replacement of components,                          public thoroughfare, body of water, transportation right-of-
                                                                                way, or property owned or used by others. (SIG-SSS)
       system programming, and maintenance as described in the              3.3.214 Proprietary Supervising Station. See 3.3.290, Super-
                                                                            vising Station.
 N manufacturer's service instructions that can affect any aspect           3.3.215 Proprietary Supervising Station Alarm System. See
                                                                            3.3.291, Supervising Station Alarm Systems.
       of the performance of the system. (SIG-TMS)                          3.3.216 Proprietary Supervising Station Service. See 3.3.292,
                                                                            Supervising Station Service.
 O 3.3.200.3 System Designer. Individual responsible for the                3.3.217 Protected Premises. The physical location protected
                                                                            by a fire alarm system. (SIG-PRO)
       development of fire alarm and signaling system plans and             3.3.218 Protected Premises (Local) Control Unit. See 3.3.108,
       specifications in accordance with this Code. (SIG-FUN)               Fire Alarm Control Unit (FACU).
                                                                            3.3.219 Protected Premises (Local) Fire Alarm System. See
 E 3.3.200.4 System Installer. Individual responsible for the               3.3.111, Fire Alarm System.
 S proper installation of fire alarm and signaling systems in               3.3.220 Public Address System. An electronic amplification
                                                                            system with a mixer, amplifier, and loudspeakers, used to rein-
       accordance with plans, specifications, and manufacturer's            force a given sound and distributing the "sound" to the general
                                                                            public around a building. (SIG-ECS)
 U requirements. (SIG-FUN)                                                  3.3.221 Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System. A system
 L 3.3.200.5 Testing Personnel. Individuals who perform proce-              of alarm-initiating devices, transmitting and receiving equip-
                                                                            ment, and communications infrastructure -- other than a
       dures used to determine the status of a system as intended           public telephone network-- used to communicate with the
                                                                            communications center to provide any combination of manual
 A by conducting acceptance, reacceptance, or periodic physi-               or auxiliary alarm service. (SIG-PRS)
                                                                                3.3.221.1* Auxiliary Alarm System. A protected premises
       cal checks on systems. (SIG-TMS)                                         fire alarm system or other emergency system at the protec-
                                                                                ted premises and the system used to connect the protected
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 3.3.201 Photoelectric Light Obscuration Smoke Detection.    premises system to a public emergency alarm reporting
                                                                                system for transmitting an alarm to the communications
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} See 3.3.276, Smoke Detection.

ID 3.3.202 Photoelectric Light-Scattering Smoke Detection. See

   3.3.276, Smoke Detection.

IV 3.3.203 Plant. One or more buildings under the same owner-

   ship or control on a single property. (SIG-SSS)

D 3.3.204 Pneumatic Rate-of-Rise Tubing Heat Detector. See
IN 3.3.70, Detector.

   3.3.205 Positive Alarm Sequence. An automatic sequence that
   results in an alarm signal, even when manually delayed for

R investigation, unless the system is reset. (SIG-PRO)

   3.3.206 Power Supply. A source of electrical operating power,

Oincluding the circuits and terminations connecting it to the
Fdependent system components. (SIG-FUN)
3.3.207 Primary Battery (Dry Cell). A nonrechargeable                       center. (SIG-PRS)
battery requiring periodic replacement. (SIG-FUN)
                                                                            3.3.221.1.1 Local Energy­Type Auxiliary Alarm System. An
3.3.208 Primary Trunk Facility. That part of a transmission                 auxiliary system that employs a locally complete arrange-
channel connecting all leg facilities to a supervising or subsid-           ment of parts, initiating devices, relays, power supply, and
iary station. (SIG-SSS)                                                     associated components to automatically activate a master
                                                                            box or auxiliary box over circuits that are electrically isola-
 3.3.209 Prime Contractor. The listed central station or listed             ted from the public emergency alarm reporting system
   alarm service local company that is contractually responsible            circuits. (SIG-PRS)
   for providing central station services to a subscriber as required
by this Code. (SIG-SSS)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-32         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

3.3.221.1.2 Shunt-Type Auxiliary Alarm System. An auxiliary      3.3.234 Radio Channel. See 3.3.47, Channel.
system electrically connected to the public emergency alarm
reporting system extending a public emergency alarm              3.3.235* Radio Frequency. The number of electromagnetic
reporting circuit to interconnect initiating devices within a    wave frequency cycles transmitted by a radio in 1 second.
protected premises, which, when operated, opens the public       [1221, 2016] (SIG-PRS)

emergency alarm reporting circuit shunted around the trip                  3.3.236 Rate Compensation Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.
coil of the master box or auxiliary box. The master box or                 3.3.237 Rate-of-Rise Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.
auxiliary box is thereupon energized to start transmission
without any assistance from a local source of power. (SIG-
PRS)                                                                       3.3.238 Record Drawings. Drawings (as-built) that document
                                                                           the location of all devices, appliances, wiring sequences, wiring
                                                                           methods, and connections of the components of the system as
3.3.221.2 Type A Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System. A                installed. (SIG-FUN)
system in which an alarm from an alarm box is received and
       is retransmitted to an emergency response facility either
       manually or automatically. (SIG-PRS)                                3.3.239 Record of Completion. A document that acknowl-
                                                                           edges the features of installation, operation (performance),
 Y 3.3.221.3 Type B Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System. A             service, and equipment with representation by the property
                                                                           owner, system installer, system supplier, service organization,
       system in which an alarm from an alarm box is automatically         and the authority having jurisdiction. (SIG-FUN)
                                                                           3.3.240 Releasing Fire Alarm System. See 3.3.111, Fire Alarm
 L transmitted to an emergency response facility and, if used, is          System.
                                                                           3.3.241 Releasing Service Fire Alarm Control Unit. See
       transmitted to supplementary alerting devices. (SIG-PRS)            3.3.108, Fire Alarm Control Unit (FACU).
                                                                           3.3.242 Relocation. The directed movement of occupants
N 3.3.222 Public Operating Mode. See 3.3.193, Operating                    from one area to another area within the same building.
O Mode.                                                                    (SIG-PRO)
                                                                           3.3.243 Remote Supervising Station. See 3.3.290, Supervising
   3.3.223 Public Safety Agency. A fire, emergency medical serv-           Station.
                                                                           3.3.244 Remote Supervising Station Alarm System. See
E ices, or law enforcement agency. (SIG-ECS)                               3.3.291, Supervising Station Alarm Systems.
S 3.3.224 Public Safety Radio Enhancement System. A system                 3.3.245 Remote Supervising Station Service. See 3.3.292,
                                                                           Supervising Station Service.
   installed to assure the effective operation of radio communica-         3.3.246 Repeater Station. The location of the equipment
                                                                           needed to relay signals between supervising stations, subsidiary
U tion systems used by fire, emergency medical services, or law            stations, and protected premises. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                           3.3.247 Reset. A control function that attempts to return a
   enforcement agencies. (SIG-ECS)                                         system or device to its normal, nonalarm state. (SIG-FUN)
                                                                           3.3.248 Residential Board and Care Occupancy. An occu-
L 3.3.225 Public Safety Radio System. A radio communication                pancy used for lodging and boarding of four or more residents,
                                                                           not related by blood or marriage to the owners or operators,
   system used by fire, emergency medical services, or law enforce-        for the purpose of providing personal care services. [101, 2018]
                                                                           (SIG-HOU)
A ment agencies. (SIG-ECS)                                                 3.3.249 Residential Occupancy. An occupancy that provides
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 3.3.226 Public Switched Telephone Network. See 3.3.297,sleeping accommodations for purposes other than health care
                                                                           or detention and correctional. [101, 2018] (SIG-HOU)
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Switched Telephone Network.                          3.3.250* Response. Actions performed upon the receipt of a
                                                                           signal. (SIG-FUN)
ID  3.3.227 Publicly Accessible Alarm Box. See 3.3.12, Alarm
   Box.
IV 3.3.228* Qualified. A competent and capable person or
   company that has met the requirements and training for a
D given field acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
   (SIG-TMS)
IN 3.3.229 Radiant Energy­Sensing Fire Detector. See 3.3.70,
   Detector.
   3.3.230 Radio Alarm Repeater Station Receiver (RARSR). A
R system component that receives radio signals and resides at a
   repeater station that is located at a remote receiving location.
O (SIG-SSS)
F3.3.231 Radio Alarm Supervising Station Receiver (RASSR).
   A system component that receives data and annunciates that
   data at the supervising station. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                           3.3.250.1* Alarm Response. The response to the receipt of
3.3.232 Radio Alarm System (RAS). A system in which signals                an alarm signal. (SIG-FUN)
are transmitted from a radio alarm transmitter (RAT) located
at a protected premises through a radio channel to two or                  3.3.250.2* Pre-Alarm Response. The response to the receipt
more radio alarm repeater station receivers (RARSR) and that               of a pre-alarm signal. (SIG-FUN)
are annunciated by a radio alarm supervising station receiver
(RASSR) located at the supervising station. (SIG-SSS)                      3.3.250.3* Supervisory Response. The response to the
                                                                           receipt of a supervisory signal. (SIG-FUN)
3.3.233 Radio Alarm Transmitter (RAT). A system component
at the protected premises to which initiating devices or groups            3.3.250.4* Trouble Response. The response to the receipt of
of devices are connected that transmits signals indicating a               a trouble signal. (SIG-FUN)

status change of the initiating devices. (SIG-SSS)

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                     DEFINITIONS                                                                                                72-33

3.3.251 Response Time Index (RTI). A numerical value that                                              3.3.263.5* Fire Alarm Signal. A signal that results from the
represents the thermal response sensitivity of the sensing                                             manual or automatic detection of a fire alarm condition.
element in a heat detector, sprinkler, or other heat-sensing fire                                      (SIG-FUN)
detection device to the fire environment in terms of gas
temperature and velocity versus time. (See B.3.3.3.7.) (SIG-IDS)                                       3.3.263.6* Guard's Tour Supervisory Signal. A signal gener-
                                                                                                       ated when a guard on patrol has actuated a guard's tour
3.3.252 Restorable Initiating Device. See 3.3.141, Initiating                                          reporting station. (SIG-PRO)
Device.
                                                                                                       3.3.263.7* Pre-Alarm Signal. A signal that results from the
3.3.253 Risk Analysis. A process to characterize the likeli-                                           detection of a pre-alarm condition. (SIG-FUN)
   hood, vulnerability, and magnitude of incidents associated with
   natural, technological, and manmade disasters and other emer-                                           3.3.263.8 Restoration Signal. A signal that results from the
   gencies that address scenarios of concern, their probability, and                                       return to normal condition of an initiating device, system
   their potential consequences. (SIG-ECS)                                                                 element, or system. (SIG-FUN)
   3.3.254 Runner. A person other than the required number of                                              3.3.263.9* Supervisory Signal. A signal that results from the
   operators on duty at central, supervising, or runner stations (or                                       detection of a supervisory condition. (SIG-FUN)
                                                                                                           3.3.263.10* Trouble Signal. A signal that results from the
Y otherwise in contact with these stations) available for prompt                                           detection of a trouble condition. (SIG-FUN)
L dispatching, when necessary, to the protected premises.                                              3.3.264 Signal Transmission Sequence. A DACT that obtains
                                                                                                       dial tone, dials the number(s) of the DACR, obtains verification
   (SIG-SSS)                                                                                           that the DACR is ready to receive signals, transmits the signals,
                                                                                                       and receives acknowledgment that the DACR has accepted that
N 3.3.255 Runner Service. The service provided by a runner at                                          signal before disconnecting (going on-hook). (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                                       3.3.265 Signaling Line Circuit. A circuit path between any
   the protected premises, including restoration, resetting, and                                       combination of addressable appliances or devices, circuit inter-
                                                                                                       faces, control units, or transmitters over which multiple system
O silencing of all equipment transmitting fire alarm or supervi-                                       input signals or output signals or both are carried. (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                                       3.3.266 Signaling Line Circuit Interface. See 3.3.146, Inter-
   sory or trouble signals to an off-premises location. (SIG-SSS)                                      face.
                                                                                                       3.3.267 Signaling Zone. See 3.3.328, Zone.
E 3.3.256 Secondary Trunk Facility. That part of a transmission                                        3.3.268 Single Dwelling Unit. See 3.3.83, Dwelling Unit.
S channel connecting two or more, but fewer than all, leg facili-                                      3.3.269 Single-Station Alarm. A detector comprising an
                                                                                                       assembly that incorporates a sensor, control components, and
   ties to a primary trunk facility. (SIG-SSS)                                                         an alarm notification appliance in one unit operated from a
                                                                                                       power source either located in the unit or obtained at the point
U 3.3.257 Selective Talk Mode. See 3.3.301, Talk Mode.                                                 of installation. (SIG-HOU)
L  3.3.258* Separate Sleeping Area. The area of a dwelling unit                                        3.3.270 Single-Station Alarm Device. An assembly that incor-
                                                                                                       porates the detector, the control equipment, and the alarm-
   where the bedrooms or sleeping rooms are located.                                                   sounding device in one unit operated from a power supply
                                                                                                       either in the unit or obtained at the point of installation.
A (SIG-HOU)                                                                                            (SIG-HOU)
                                                                                                       3.3.271 Site-Specific Software. See 3.3.279, Software.
   3.3.259 Service Personnel. See 3.3.200, Personnel.                                                  3.3.272 Sloping Ceiling. See 3.3.38, Ceiling.
                                                                                                       3.3.273 Sloping Peaked-Type Ceiling. See 3.3.38, Ceiling.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.3.260 Shapes of Ceilings. The shapes of ceilings can be clas-
ID sified as sloping or smooth. (SIG-IDS)

   3.3.261* Shop Drawings. Documents that provide informa-

IV tion pertaining to the system necessary for installation of a fire

   alarm and/or signaling system. (SIG-FUN)

D 3.3.262 Shunt-Type Auxiliary Alarm System. See 3.3.221,

   Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System.

IN 3.3.263* Signal. An indication of a condition communicated

   by electrical, visible, visual, audible, wireless, or other means.
   (SIG-FUN)

 R 3.3.263.1* Alarm Signal. A signal that results from the

       manual or automatic detection of an alarm condition.

FO(SIG-FUN)
 3.3.263.2 Carbon Monoxide Alarm Signal. A signal indicating                                           3.3.274 Sloping Shed-Type Ceiling. See 3.3.38, Ceiling.
a concentration of carbon monoxide at or above the alarm
threshold that could pose a risk to the life safety of the occu-                                       3.3.275 Smoke Alarm. A single or multiple-station alarm
                                                                                                       responsive to smoke. (SIG-HOU)
pants and that requires immediate action. (SIG-FUN)

3.3.263.3 Delinquency Signal. A signal indicating a supervi-                                           3.3.276 Smoke Detection.
sory condition and the need for action in connection with                                                  3.3.276.1 Cloud Chamber Smoke Detection. The principle of
the supervision of guards or system attendants. (SIG-PRO)                                                  using an air sample drawn from the protected area into a
3.3.263.4 Evacuation Signal. A distinctive alarm signal                                                    high-humidity chamber combined with a lowering of cham-
intended to be recognized by the occupants as requiring                                                    ber pressure to create an environment in which the resul-
evacuation of the building. (SIG-PRO)                                                                      tant moisture in the air condenses on any smoke particles
                                                                                                           present, forming a cloud. The cloud density is measured by
                                                                                                           a photoelectric principle. The density signal is processed

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-34                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

and used to convey an alarm condition when it meets preset                        3.3.283 Spark/Ember Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.
criteria. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                  3.3.284 Spark/Ember Detector Sensitivity. The number of
3.3.276.2* Ionization Smoke Detection. The principle of                           watts (or the fraction of a watt) of radiant power from a point
using a small amount of radioactive material to ionize the                        source radiator, applied as a unit step signal at the wavelength
air between two differentially charged electrodes to sense                        of maximum detector sensitivity, necessary to produce an alarm
the presence of smoke particles. Smoke particles entering                         signal from the detector within the specified response time.
the ionization volume decrease the conductance of the air                         (SIG-IDS)
by reducing ion mobility. The reduced conductance signal is
processed and used to convey an alarm condition when it                           3.3.285 Spot-Type Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.

meets preset criteria. (SIG-IDS)                                                  3.3.286 Stakeholder. Any individual, group, or organization

    3.3.276.3* Photoelectric Light Obscuration Smoke Detection.                      that might affect, be affected by, or perceive itself to be affected
    The principle of using a light source and a photosensitive                       by the risk. (SIG-ECS)
    sensor onto which the principal portion of the source emis-                      3.3.287 Stratification. The phenomenon where the upward
    sions is focused. When smoke particles enter the light path,                     movement of smoke and gases ceases due to the loss of buoy-
                                                                                     ancy. (SIG-IDS)
Y some of the light is scattered and some is absorbed, thereby                       3.3.288 Subscriber. The recipient of a contractual supervising
                                                                                     station signal service(s). In case of multiple, noncontiguous
    reducing the light reaching the receiving sensor. The light                      properties having single ownership, the term refers to each
                                                                                     protected premises or its local management. (SIG-SSS)
L reduction signal is processed and used to convey an alarm                          3.3.289 Subsidiary Station. A subsidiary station is a normally
                                                                                     unattended location that is remote from the supervising station
    condition when it meets preset criteria. (SIG-IDS)                               and is linked by a communications channel(s) to the supervis-
                                                                                     ing station. Interconnection of signals on one or more trans-
N 3.3.276.4* Photoelectric Light-Scattering Smoke Detection. The                     mission channels from protected premises with a
O principle of using a light source and a photosensitive sensor                      communications channel(s) to the supervising station is
                                                                                     performed at this location. (SIG-SSS)
    arranged so that the rays from the light source do not                         3.3.290 Supervising Station. A facility that receives signals
    normally fall onto the photosensitive sensor. When smoke                         from alarm systems and at which personnel are in attendance
                                                                                     at all times to respond to these signals. (SIG-SSS)
E particles enter the light path, some of the light is scattered
                                                                                         3.3.290.1 Central Supervising Station. A supervising station
    by reflection and refraction onto the sensor. The light signal                       that is listed for central station service and that also
                                                                                         commonly provides less stringent supervising station serv-
S is processed and used to convey an alarm condition when it                             ices such as remote supervising services. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                         3.3.290.2 Proprietary Supervising Station. A supervising
    meets preset criteria. (SIG-IDS)                                                     station under the same ownership as the protected premises
                                                                                         fire alarm system(s) that it supervises (monitors) and to
U 3.3.276.5* Video Image Smoke Detection (VISD). The princi-                             which alarm, supervisory, or trouble signals are received and
L ple of using automatic analysis of real-time video images to                           where personnel are in attendance at all times to supervise
                                                                                         operation and investigate signals. (SIG-SSS)
    detect the presence of smoke. (SIG-IDS)                                              3.3.290.3 Remote Supervising Station. A supervising station
                                                                                         to which alarm, supervisory, or trouble signals or any combi-
A 3.3.277 Smoke Detector. See 3.3.70, Detector.                                          nation of those signals emanating from protected premises
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 3.3.278 Smooth Ceiling. See 3.3.40, Ceiling Surfaces.                fire alarm systems are received and where personnel are in
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.3.279 Software. Programs, instruments, procedures, data,       attendance at all times to respond. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                     3.3.291 Supervising Station Alarm Systems.
and the like that are executed by a central processing unit of a
product and that influences the functional performance of that

IV product. For the purpose of this Code, software is one of two

types: executive software and site-specific software. (SIG-TMS)

D 3.3.279.1 Executive Software. Control and supervisory

    program that manages the execution of all other programs

IN and directly or indirectly causes the required functions of

    the product to be performed. Executive software is some-
    times referred to as firmware, BIOS, or executive program.
    (SIG-TMS)

R 3.3.279.2 Site-Specific Software. Program that is separate
O from, but controlled by, the executive software that allows
Finputs, outputs, and system configuration to be selectively
defined to meet the needs of a specific installation. Typically                   3.3.291.1 Central Station Service Alarm System. A system or
it defines the type and quantity of hardware, customized
labels, and the specific operating features of a system.                          group of systems in which the operations of circuits and
                                                                                  devices are transmitted automatically to, recorded in, main-
(SIG-TMS)                                                                         tained by, and supervised from a listed central station that

3.3.280 Solid Joist Construction. See 3.3.40, Ceiling Surfaces.                   has competent and experienced servers and operators who,

3.3.281 Spacing. A horizontally measured dimension used as                        upon receipt of a signal, take such action as required by this
a criterion in determining the allowable coverage of devices.                     Code. Such service is to be controlled and operated by a
(SIG-FUN)                                                                         person, firm, or corporation whose business is the furnish-
                                                                                  ing, maintaining, or monitoring of supervised alarm
3.3.282* Spark. A moving particle of solid material that emits                    systems. (SIG-SSS)
radiant energy due to either its temperature or the process of
combustion on its surface. [654,2017] (SIG-IDS)

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       DEFINITIONS                                                                    72-35

3.3.291.2 Proprietary Supervising Station Alarm System. An                        fixed suppression systems or other systems for the protection of
installation of an alarm system that serves contiguous and                        life and property. (SIG-PRO)
noncontiguous properties, under one ownership, from a
proprietary supervising station located at the protected                          3.3.294 Supervisory Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.

premises, or at one of multiple noncontiguous protected                           3.3.295 Supervisory Signal Initiating Device. See 3.3.141,
premises, at which trained, competent personnel are in                            Initiating Device.
constant attendance. This includes the protected premises                         3.3.296 Supplementary. As used in this Code, supplementary
fire alarm system(s); proprietary supervising station; power                      refers to equipment or operations not required by this Code
supplies; signal-initiating devices; initiating device circuits;
signal notification appliances; equipment for the automatic,                      and designated as such by the authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                                  (SIG-FUN)
permanent visual recording of signals; and equipment for
       initiating the operation of emergency building control serv-
       ices. (SIG-SSS)                                                            3.3.297 Switched Telephone Network.
       3.3.291.3 Remote Supervising Station Alarm System. A protec-                   3.3.297.1 Loop Start Telephone Circuit. A loop start tele-
       ted premises fire alarm system (exclusive of any connected                     phone circuit is an analog telephone circuit that supports
                                                                                      loop start signaling as specified in either Telcordia GR-506-
 Y to a public emergency reporting system) in which alarm,                            CORE, LATA Switching Systems Generic Requirements: Signaling
 L supervisory, or trouble signals are transmitted automatically                      for Analog Interface, or Telcordia GR-909-CORE, Fiber in the
                                                                                      Loop Systems Generic Requirements. (SIG-SSS)
       to, recorded in, and supervised from a remote supervising                      3.3.297.2 Public Switched Telephone Network. An assembly of
                                                                                      communications equipment and telephone service provid-
 N station that has competent and experienced servers and                             ers that utilize managed facilities-based voice networks
                                                                                      (MFVN) to provide the general public with the ability to
       operators who, upon receipt of a signal, take such action as                   establish communications channels via discrete dialing
                                                                                      codes. (SIG-SSS)
 O required by this Code. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                  3.3.298 System Operator. An individual trained to operate
   3.3.292 Supervising Station Service.                                           and/or initiate a mass notification system. (SIG-ECS)
                                                                                  3.3.299 System Unit. The active subassemblies at the supervis-
 E 3.3.292.1 Central Station Service. The use of a system or a                    ing station used for signal receiving, processing, display, or
                                                                                  recording of status change signals; a failure of one of these
       group of systems including the protected premises fire                     subassemblies causes the loss of a number of alarm signals by
                                                                                  that unit. (SIG-SSS)
 S alarm system(s) in which the operations of circuits and devi-                  3.3.300 Tactile Notification Appliance. See 3.3.182, Notifica-
                                                                                  tion Appliance.
       ces are signaled to, recorded in, and supervised from a                    3.3.301 Talk Mode. A means of communications within a
                                                                                  building normally dedicated to emergency functions.
 U listed central station that has competent and experienced                      Commonly referred to as fire fighters' phones, but can also be
                                                                                  used for communications with fire fighters and/or fire
       operators who, upon receipt of a signal, take such action as               wardens, including occupants, during an emergency, such as
                                                                                  between a fire command center and a designated location,
 L required by this Code. Related activities at the protected                     such as a stair, stairwell, or location of emergency equipment.
                                                                                  (SIG-ECS)
       premises, such as equipment installation, inspection, test-
                                                                                      3.3.301.1 Common Talk Mode. The ability to conference
 A ing, maintenance, and runner service, are the responsibility                       multiple telephones in a single conversation. This is similar
                                                                                      to what was referred to as a party line. (SIG-ECS)
       of the central station or a listed alarm service local company.                3.3.301.2 Selective Talk Mode. The ability for personnel at
                                                                                      the fire command center to receive indication of incoming
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Central station service is controlled and operated by a
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} person, firm, or corporation whose business is the furnish-
 ID ing of such contracted services or whose properties are the
       protected premises. (SIG-SSS)
 IV 3.3.292.2 Proprietary Supervising Station Service. The use of
       a system or a group of systems including the protected
 D premises fire alarm system(s) in which the operations of
       circuits and devices are signaled to, recorded in, and super-
 IN vised from a supervising station under the same ownership
       as the protected premises that has competent and experi-
       enced operators who, upon receipt of a signal, take such
       action as required by this Code. Related activities at the
 R protected premises, such as equipment installation, inspec-
       tion, testing, maintenance, and runner service, are the
 Oresponsibility of the owner. Proprietary supervising station
       service is controlled and operated by the entity whose prop-

Ferties are the protected premises. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                  calls and choose which call to answer. This includes the abil-
3.3.292.3 Remote Supervising Station Service. The use of a                        ity to transfer between incoming calls and conference multi-
system including the protected premises fire alarm
system(s) in which the operations of circuits and devices are                     ple phone locations. Selective calling can include the ability
                                                                                  to initiate calls to emergency phone locations. (SIG-ECS)
signaled to, recorded in, and supervised from a supervising
station that has competent and experienced operators who,                         3.3.302 Testing Personnel. See 3.3.200, Personnel.

upon receipt of a signal, take such action as required by this                    3.3.303 Textual Audible Notification Appliance. See 3.3.182,
Code. Related activities at the protected premises, such as                       Notification Appliance.
equipment installation, inspection, testing, and mainte-
nance, are the responsibility of the owner. (SIG-SSS)                             3.3.304 Textual Visual Notification Appliance. See 3.3.182,
                                                                                  Notification Appliance.
3.3.293 Supervisory Service. The service required to monitor
performance of guard tours and the operative condition of                         3.3.305 Transmission Channel. See 3.3.47, Channel.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-36                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

3.3.306 Transmitter. A system component that provides an                        call arrangements. In-WATS or 800-number service calls can be
interface between signaling line circuits, initiating device                    placed from anywhere in the continental United States to the
circuits, or control units and the transmission channel. (SIG-                  called party at no cost to the calling party. Out-WATS is a serv-
SSS)                                                                            ice whereby, for a flat-rate charge, dependent on the total dura-
                                                                                tion of all such calls, a subscriber can make an unlimited
3.3.307 Transponder. A multiplex alarm transmission system                      number of calls within a prescribed area from a particular tele-
functional assembly located at the protected premises. (SIG-                    phone terminal without the registration of individual call
SSS)                                                                            charges. (SIG-SSS)

3.3.308 Trouble Signal. See 3.3.263, Signal.                                    3.3.321* Wavelength. The distance between the peaks of a

3.3.309 Two-Way Emergency Communications System. See                            sinusoidal wave. All radiant energy can be described as a wave
                                                                                having a wavelength. Wavelength serves as the unit of measure
3.3.90, Emergency Communications System.                                        for distinguishing between different parts of the spectrum.

3.3.310 Type A Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System.                            Wavelengths are measured in microns (µm), nanometers (nm),
See 3.3.221, Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System.                              or angstroms (Å). (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                   3.3.322 Wide-Area Mass Notification System. See 3.3.90,
Y 3.3.311 Type B Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System.                          Emergency Communications System.
                                                                                   3.3.323 Wide-Area Signaling. Signaling intended to provide
See 3.3.221, Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System.                              alerting or information to exterior open spaces, such as
                                                                                   campuses, neighborhood streets, a city, a town, or a commun-
L 3.3.312 Unintentional Alarm. See 3.3.314.3, Unintentional                        ity. (SIG-NAS)
N Alarm.                                                                           3.3.324 Wireless Control Unit. See 3.3.63, Control Unit.
                                                                                N 3.3.325* Wireless Mesh Network (WMN) (as used in Chap-
3.3.313 Unknown Alarm. See 3.3.314.4, Unknown Alarm.                               ter 26). A decentralized communications network made up of
                                                                                   radio nodes organized in a mesh topology that does not rely on
O 3.3.314* Unwanted Alarm. Any alarm that occurs that is not                       a pre-existing infrastructure. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                   3.3.326 Wireless Protection System. A system or a part of a
the result of a potentially hazardous condition. (SIG-FUN)                         system that can transmit and receive signals without the aid of
                                                                                   interconnection wiring. It can consist of either a wireless
E 3.3.314.1 Malicious Alarm. An unwanted activation of an                          control unit or a wireless repeater. (SIG-PRO)
S alarm initiating device caused by a person acting with                           3.3.327 Wireless Repeater. A component used to relay signals
                                                                                   among wireless devices, appliances, and control units.
    malice. (SIG-FUN)                                                              (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                   3.3.328 Zone. A defined area within the protected premises.
U 3.3.314.2* Nuisance Alarm. An unwanted activation of a                           A zone can define an area from which a signal can be received,
                                                                                   an area to which a signal can be sent, or an area in which a
    signaling system or an alarm initiating device in response to                  form of control can be executed. (SIG-FUN)

L a stimulus or condition that is not the result of a potentially                      3.3.328.1 Notification Zone. A discrete area of a building, or
                                                                                       defined area outside a building, in which people are inten-
    hazardous condition. (SIG-FUN)                                                     ded to receive common notification. (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                       3.3.328.2* Signaling Zone. An area consisting of one or
A 3.3.314.3 Unintentional Alarm. An unwanted activation of                             more notification zones where identical signals are activated
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U an alarm initiating device caused by a person acting without       simultaneously. (SIG-ECS)

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} malice. (SIG-FUN)                                                                        Chapter 4 Reserved

ID 3.3.314.4 Unknown Alarm. An unwanted activation of an

    alarm initiating device or system output function where the

IV cause has not been identified. (SIG-FUN)

3.3.315 Uplink. The radio signal from the portable public

D safety subscriber transmitter to the base station receiver.

(SIG-ECS)

IN 3.3.316* Video Image Flame Detection (VIFD). The principle

of using automatic analysis of real-time video images to detect
the presence of flame. (SIG-IDS)

R 3.3.317 Video Image Smoke Detection (VISD). See 3.3.276,
O Smoke Detection.
F3.3.318 Visual Notification Appliance. See 3.3.182, Notifica-
tion Appliance.

3.3.319 Voice Message Priority. A scheme for prioritizing                       Chapter 5 Reserved
mass notification messages. (SIG-ECS)

3.3.320 WATS (Wide Area Telephone Service). Telephone                           Chapter 6 Reserved
company service allowing reduced costs for certain telephone

2019 Edition     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                            DOCUMENTATION                                                                                    72-37

Chapter 7 Documentation                                                      (14) For software-based systems, a copy of site-specific soft-
                                                                             ware, including specific instructions on how to obtain
7.1 Application. (SIG-FUN)                                                   the means of system and software access (password)
                                                                             (15) Record (as-built) drawings
7.1.1 The documentation of the design, acceptance, and                       (16) Records, record retention, and record maintenance in
completion of new systems required under this Code shall
comply with the minimum requirements of this chapter.                                accordance with Section 7.7
                                                                             (17) Completed record of inspection and testing in accord-
                                                                             ance with 7.6.6 and 7.8.2
7.1.2 The documentation of the alteration, maintenance, and
testing of existing systems shall comply with the minimum
requirements of this chapter.                                                7.2.2 System design documents shall identify the name and
                                                                             contact information of the system designer.

   7.1.3* Where required by governing laws, codes, or standards,                7.2.3 All fire alarm drawings shall use symbols described in
   or other parts of this Code, the requirements of this chapter, or            NFPA 170 or other symbols acceptable to the authority having
   portions thereof, shall apply.                                               jurisdiction.
   7.1.4 Unless noted in Chapter 29 or required by other govern-                7.3 Design (Layout) Documentation.
                                                                                7.3.1* The requirements of Section 7.3 shall apply only where
Y ing laws, codes, or standards, the documentation requirements                 required by other governing laws, codes, or standards; by other
L of this chapter shall not apply to Chapter 29.                                parts of this Code; or by project specifications or drawings.
                                                                                (SIG-FUN)
   7.1.5 This chapter outlines documentation requirements but                   7.3.2* Where required by governing laws, codes, or standards,
                                                                                or other parts of this Code, design (layout) documents shall be
N does not prohibit additional documentation from being provi-                  prepared prior to installing new systems and additions or alter-
                                                                                ations to existing systems. (SIG-ECS)
   ded.                                                                         7.3.3* Where required by governing laws, codes, or standards,
                                                                                or other parts of this Code, preliminary plans shall be created.
O 7.1.6 The requirements of Chapters 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 21, 23,                (SIG-ECS)
                                                                             N 7.3.3.1 When adesign professional is preparing design docu-
   24, 26, and 27 shall apply unless otherwise noted in this chap-              ments that will incorporate new or modifications to a fire alarm
                                                                                or emergency communication system covered by this Code,
E ter.                                                                          preliminary bid documents shall be prepared in accordance
S 7.2* Minimum Required Documentation. (SIG-FUN)                                with Section 7.3.
                                                                             N 7.3.3.2 The design professional shall be qualified to prepare
   7.2.1* Where documentation is required by the authority                      fire alarm design documents in accordance with 10.5.1.
                                                                             N 7.3.3.3 Design documents shall incorporate performance
U having jurisdiction, the following list shall represent the mini-             criteria to ensure that the system will provide a beneficial
                                                                                component to the fire and life safety needs of the owner, occu-
   mum documentation required for new systems and additions                     pants, and authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                             N 7.3.3.4 Design documents shall clearly communicate the
L or alterations to existing systems:                                           intended performance and functionality expected by all instal-
A (1)* Written narrative providing intent and system descrip-                   ling contractors.
                                                                             N 7.3.3.5 For spaces designated as acoustically distinguishable
            tion                                                                spaces (ADS) in accordance with 18.4.11, the design professio-
                                                                                nal shall coordinate with other design disciplines so that intelli-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (2) Riser diagram                                           gibility of messages can be achieved utilizing the emergency
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (3) Floor plan layout showing locations of all devices,   communications equipment as specified in the design docu-
  ID control equipment, and supervising station and shared
            communications equipment with each sheet showing the
            following:
  IV (a) Point of compass (north arrow)
            (b) A graphic representation of the scale used
  D (c) Room use identification
            (d) Building features that will affect the placement of
   IN initiating devices and notification appliances
     (4) Sequence of operation in either an input/output matrix
            or narrative form
     (5) Equipment technical data sheets
R (6) Manufacturers' published instructions, including opera-
            tion and maintenance instructions
O(7) Battery capacity and safety margin calculations (where

F batteries are provided)
(8) Voltage drop calculations for notification appliance                     ments and available to contractors/installers.
        circuits
 (9) Mounting height elevation for wall-mounted devices and                  7.3.4 Notification. (SIG-NAS)
                                                                             7.3.4.1* The requirements of 7.3.4 shall apply only where
        appliances                                                           required by other governing laws, codes, or standards, or by
(10) Where occupant notification is required, minimum                        other parts of this Code.
                                                                             7.3.4.2 Design documents shall include ambient sound pres-
        sound pressure levels that must be produced by the audi-             sure levels and audible design sound pressure levels in accord-
        ble notification appliances in applicable covered areas              ance with 18.4.1.5.4.
(11) Locations of alarm notification appliances, including
        candela ratings for visual alarm notification appliances
(12)* Pathway diagrams between the control unit and shared
        communications equipment within the protected prem-
        ises                                                                 7.3.4.3 Analysis and design documentation for narrow band
(13) Completed record of completion in accordance with                       tone signaling shall be in accordance with 18.4.7.4.

7.5.6 and 7.8.2

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-38                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

7.3.4.4 The documentation of acoustically distinguishable                           7.3.8.3 The emergency response plan shall document the vari-
spaces (ADS) shall be in accordance with 18.4.11.                                   ous scenarios evaluated and the anticipated outcomes.

7.3.4.5 Design documents shall specify the rooms and spaces                         7.3.9 Evaluation Documentation. (SIG-FUN)
that will have visual notification and those where visual notifica-
tion will not be provided in accordance with 18.5.2.1.                              7.3.9.1* Evaluation documentation shall include a signed
                                                                                    statement(s) by the person responsible for the design attesting
7.3.4.6 Performance-based design alternatives for visual notifi-                    to the evaluation and the resultant technical decision and
cation appliance design shall be in accordance with 18.5.5.7.2.                     deeming it reliable and acceptable for the particular applica-
                                                                                    tion.
7.3.5 Detection. (SIG-IDS)
                                                                                     7.3.9.2 A copy of the evaluation documentation shall be
   7.3.5.1 Heat-Sensing Fire Detectors. Heat detection design                          retained for the life of the system and be maintained with the
   documentation shall be provided in accordance with                                  documents required by 7.7.1.6.
   Section 17.6.                                                                       7.4 Shop Drawings (Installation Documentation). (SIG-FUN)
   7.3.5.2 Smoke-Sensing Fire Detectors. Smoke detection                               7.4.1* The requirements of Section 7.4 shall apply only where
                                                                                       required by other governing laws, codes, or standards; by other
Y design documentation shall be provided in accordance with                            parts of this Code; or by project specifications or drawings.
                                                                                       7.4.2* Shop drawings shall be drawn to an indicated scale, on
   Section 17.7.                                                                       sheets of uniform size, with a plan of each floor.
                                                                                       7.4.3 Shop drawings for fire alarm and emergency communi-
L 7.3.5.3 Radiant Energy-Sensing Fire Detectors. Radiant                               cations systems shall provide basic information and shall
N energy detection design documentation shall be provided in                           provide the basis for the record (as-built) drawings required in
                                                                                       accordance with 7.5.2.
   accordance with Section 17.8.                                                       7.4.4 Shop drawings shall include the following information:
                                                                                       (1) Name of protected premises, owner, and occupant
O 7.3.5.4 Gas Detectors. Gas detection design documentation                                    (where applicable)
                                                                                       (2) Name of installer or contractor
   shall be provided in accordance with Section 17.10.                                 (3) Location of protected premises
                                                                                       (4) Device legend and symbols in accordance with NFPA 170,
E 7.3.6* Risk Analysis Documentation. (SIG-ECS)                                                or other symbols acceptable to the authority having juris-
S 7.3.6.1 When a risk analysis is required to be prepared, find-                               diction
                                                                                       (5) Date of issue and any revision dates
   ings and considerations of the risk analysis shall be documen-                      7.4.5 Floor plan drawings shall be drawn to an indicated scale
                                                                                       and shall include the following information, where applicable
U ted.                                                                                 for the particular system:
                                                                                         (1) Floor or level identification
   7.3.6.2 When determined by the stakeholders, security and                             (2) Point of compass (indication of North)
                                                                                         (3) Graphic scale
L protection of the risk analysis documentation shall be in                              (4) All walls and doors
                                                                                         (5) All partitions extending to within 15 percent of the ceil-
   accordance with 7.3.7 and Section 7.7.                                                       ing height (where applicable and when known)
                                                                                         (6) Room and area descriptions
A 7.3.6.3 The risk analysis documentation shall list the various                         (7) System devices/component locations
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U scenarios evaluated and the anticipated outcomes.                    (8) Locations of fire alarm primary power disconnecting
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 7.3.6.4 Risk analyses for mass notification systems shall be            means
                                                                                         (9) Locations of monitor/control interfaces to other systems
   documented in accordance with 7.3.6 and 24.3.12.                                    (10) System riser locations

IV 7.3.7* Performance-Based Design Documentation.

   7.3.7.1 Performance-based design documentation for fire

D detection shall be in accordance with Section 17.3. (SIG-IDS)

   7.3.7.2 Performance-based design documentation for visual

IN notification appliances shall be in accordance with 18.5.5.7.2.

   (SIG-NAS)
   7.3.7.3 A copy of approval documentation resulting from

R performance-based designs shall be included with the comple-

   tion documentation in accordance with Section 7.5. (SIG-FUN)

O N 7.3.7.4 Performance-based design documentation for mass
Fnotification systems shall be in accordance with Section 24.12.
7.3.7.5 Performance-based design documentation for signal-                          (11) Type and number of system components/devices on
ing line circuit zoning shall be in accordance with 23.6.1.4 and                            each circuit, on each floor or level
23.6.1.5. (SIG-PRO)
                                                                                    (12) Type and quantity of conductors and conduit (if used)
                                                                                            for each circuit
                                                                                    (13) Identification of any ceiling over 10 ft (3.0 m) in height
7.3.8 Emergency Response Plan Documentation. (SIG-ECS)                                      where automatic fire detection is being proposed
7.3.8.1 When an emergency response plan is required to be
prepared, such as for a mass notification system, findings of the                   (14) Details of ceiling geometries, including beams and solid
                                                                                           joists, where automatic fire detection is being proposed
plan shall be documented.                                                           (15) Where known, acoustic properties of spaces

7.3.8.2 When identified by the stakeholders, security and
protection of the emergency response plan documentation
shall be in accordance with 7.7.3.

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    DOCUMENTATION                                                                 72-39

7.4.6 System riser diagrams shall be coordinated with the floor                      7.5.4 For new emergency communications systems, an owner's
plans and shall include the following information:                                   manual shall be provided and shall contain the following docu-
                                                                                     mentation:
(1) General arrangement of the system in building cross-
section                                                                              (1) Detailed narrative description of the system inputs, evacu-
(2) Number of risers                                                                 ation signaling, ancillary functions, annunciation, inten-
(3) Type and number of circuits in each riser                                        ded sequence of operations, expansion capability,
(4) Type and number of system components/devices on each                             application considerations, and limitations
circuit, on each floor or level                                                      (2) Written sequence of operation for the system including
(5) Number of conductors for each circuit                                            an operational input/output matrix
                                                                                     (3) Operator instructions for basic system operations, includ-
   7.4.7 Control unit diagrams shall be provided for all control                            ing alarm acknowledgment, system reset, interpretation
   equipment (i.e., equipment listed as either a control unit or                            of system output (LEDs, CRT display, and printout), oper-
   control unit accessory), power supplies, battery chargers, and                           ation of manual evacuation signaling and ancillary func-
   annunciators and shall include the following information:                                tion controls, and change of printer paper
   (1) Identification of the control equipment depicted
                                                                                     (4) Detailed description of routine maintenance and testing
Y (2) Location(s) of control equipment                                                      as required and recommended and as would be provided
L (3) All field wiring terminals and terminal identifications                               under a maintenance contract, including testing and
                                                                                            maintenance instructions for each type of device instal-
   (4) All circuits connected to field wiring terminals and circuit                         led, which includes the following:
                                                                                            (a) Listing of the individual system components that
  N identifications                                                                                require periodic testing and maintenance
                                                                                            (b) Step-by-step instructions detailing the requisite test-
   (5) All indicators and manual controls                                                          ing and maintenance procedures, and the intervals
   (6) Field connections to supervising station signaling equip-                                   at which those procedures shall be performed, for
                                                                                                   each type of device installed
  O ment, releasing equipment, or emergency safety control                                  (c) Schedule that correlates the testing and mainte-
                                                                                                   nance procedures that are required by this section
          interfaces, where provided
                                                                                     (5) Service directory, including a list of names and telephone
E 7.4.8 Typical wiring diagrams shall be provided for all initiat-                          numbers of those who provide service for the system
S ing devices, notification appliances, remote indicators, annun-
                                                                                     (6) Product data sheets for all system equipment (SIG-ECS)
   ciators, remote test stations, and end-of-line and power                          7.5.5 Record Drawings (As-Builts). (SIG-FUN)
                                                                                     7.5.5.1 Record drawings shall consist of current updated shop
U supervisory devices.                                                               drawings reflecting the actual installation of all system equip-
                                                                                     ment, components, and wiring.
   7.4.9* A narrative description or input/output matrix of oper-                    7.5.5.2* A sequence of operations in input/output matrix or
                                                                                     narrative form shall be provided with the record drawings to
L ation shall be provided to describe the sequence of operation.                     reflect actual programming at the time of completion.
A 7.4.10 System calculations shall be included as follows:                           7.5.5.3 Where necessary, revised calculations in accordance
                                                                                     with 7.4.10 shall be provided depicting any changes due to
   (1) Battery calculations                                                          installation conditions.
                                                                                     7.5.5.4 Record drawings shall be turned over to the owner
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (2) Notification appliance circuit voltage drop calculations     with a copy placed inside the documentation cabinet in accord-
                                                                                     ance with Section 7.7.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (3) Other required calculations, such as line resistance calcu-7.5.5.5* Record drawings shall include approval documenta-
                                                                                     tion resulting from variances, performance-based designs, risk
  ID lations, where required                                                         analyses, and other system evaluations or variations.

   7.5 Completion Documentation.

IV 7.5.1* The requirements of Section 7.5 shall apply only where

   required by other governing laws, codes, or standards; by other

D parts of this Code; or by project specifications or drawings.

   (SIG-FUN)

IN 7.5.2 Before requesting final approval of the installation, if

   required by the authority having jurisdiction, the installing
   contractor shall furnish a written statement stating that the

R system has been installed in accordance with approved plans

   and tested in accordance with the manufacturer's published

Oinstructions and the appropriate NFPA requirements. (SIG-
FFUN)
7.5.3 All systems including new systems and additions or alter-      7.5.6 Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)
ations to existing systems shall include the following documen-      7.5.6.1* The record of completion shall be documented in
tation, which shall be delivered to the owner or the owner's         accordance with 7.5.6 using either the record of completion
representative upon final acceptance of the system:                  forms, Figure 7.8.2(a) through Figure 7.8.2(f), or an alternative
(1)* An owner's manual and manufacturer's published                  document that contains only the elements of Figure 7.8.2(a)
                                                                     through Figure 7.8.2(f) applicable to the installed system.
       instructions covering all system equipment                  7.5.6.2* The record of completion documentation shall be
(2) Record (as-built) drawings in accordance with 7.5.5              completed by the installing contractor and submitted to the
(3) A completed record of completion form in accordance              authority having jurisdiction and the owner at the conclusion
                                                                     of the job. The record of completion documentation shall be
       with 7.5.6                                                    permitted to be part of the written statement required in 7.5.2
(4) For software-based systems, record copy of the site-specific     and part of the documents that support the requirements of

       software in accordance with 7.5.7
(SIG-FUN)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-40                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

7.5.8. When more than one contractor has been responsible                                7.5.8.3 Verification shall ensure that:
for the installation, each contractor shall complete the portions
of the documentation for which that contractor has responsibil-                          (1) All components and functions are installed and operate
ity.                                                                                            per the approved plans and sequence of operation.

                                                                                         (2) All required system documentation is complete and is
                                                                                                archived on site.
7.5.6.3* The preparation of the record of completion docu-                               (3) For new supervising station systems, the verification shall
mentation shall be the responsibility of the qualified and expe-
rienced person in accordance with 10.5.2.                                                       also ascertain proper arrangement, transmission, and
                                                                                         receipt of all signals required to be transmitted off-
7.5.6.4 The record of completion documentation shall be                                  premises and shall meet the requirements of 14.4.1 and
updated in accordance with 7.5.6.6 to reflect all system addi-
tions or modifications.                                                                  14.4.2.
                                                                                         (4) For existing supervising station systems that are extended,
                                                                                                modified, or reconfigured, the verification shall be
7.5.6.5 The updated copy of the record of completion docu-                                      required for the new work only, and reacceptance testing
ments shall be maintained in a documentation cabinet in                                         in accordance with Chapter 14 shall be acceptable.
accordance with 7.7.2.                                                                   (5) Written confirmation has been provided that any
                                                                                                required corrective actions have been completed.
Y 7.5.6.6 Revisions.                                                                     7.5.9 Documentation of central station service shall be in
L 7.5.6.6.1 All modifications made after the initial installation                        accordance with 26.3.4. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                         7.5.10 Documentation of remote station service shall be in
shall be recorded on a revised version of the original comple-                           accordance with 26.5.2. (SIG-SSS)
                                                                                         7.6 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Documentation.
N tion documents, which shall serve as a supplement to the origi-                        (SIG-TMS)
                                                                                         7.6.1 Test plan documentation shall be provided in accord-
nal, unaltered completion documents.                                                     ance with 14.2.10.
                                                                                         7.6.2 Acceptance testing documentation shall be provided in
O 7.5.6.6.2 The revised record of completion document shall                              accordance with 14.6.1.
                                                                                         7.6.3 Reacceptance test documentation shall be provided in
include a revision date.                                                                 accordance with 14.6.1.
                                                                                         7.6.4 Periodic inspection and testing documentation shall be
E 7.5.6.6.3* Where the original or the latest overall system                             provided in accordance with 14.6.2 through 14.6.4.
S record of completion cannot be obtained, a new system record                           7.6.5 Impairment documentation shall be provided in accord-
                                                                                         ance with Section 10.21.
of completion shall be provided that documents the system                                7.6.6 Record of Inspection and Testing. The record of all
                                                                                         inspections, testing, and maintenance as required by 14.6.2.4
U configuration as discovered during the current project's scope                         shall be documented using either the record of inspection and
                                                                                         testing forms, Figure 7.8.2(g) through Figure 7.8.2(l), or an
of work.                                                                                 alternative record that includes all the applicable information
                                                                                         shown in Figure 7.8.2(g) through Figure 7.8.2(l).
L 7.5.6.7 Electronic Record of Completion.                                               7.7 Records, Record Retention, and Record Maintenance.
A 7.5.6.7.1 Where approved by the authority having jurisdiction,                         7.7.1 Records. (SIG-FUN)
                                                                                         7.7.1.1 A complete record of the tests and operations of each
the record of completion shall be permitted to be filed elec-                            system shall be kept until the next test and for 1 year thereafter
                                                                                         unless more stringent requirements are required elsewhere in
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tronically instead of on paper.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 7.5.6.7.2 If filed electronically, the record of completion docu-

ment shall be accessible with standard software and shall be
backed up.

IV 7.5.7 Site-Specific Software. (SIG-TMS)

7.5.7.1 For software-based systems, a copy of the site-specific

D software shall be provided to the system owner or owner's

designated representative.

IN 7.5.7.1.1 The site-specific software documentation shall

include both the user passcode and either the system program-
ming password or specific instructions on how to obtain the

R programming password from the system manufacturer.
O 7.5.7.1.2 The passwords provided shall enable currently certi-
Ffied qualified programming personnel to access, edit, modify,
and add to the existing system site-specific software.                                   this Code.

7.5.7.2 A copy of the site-specific software shall be stored on-                         7.7.1.2* The records shall be available for examination and, if
site in nonvolatile, nonerasable, nonrewritable memory.                                  required, reported to the authority having jurisdiction. Archiv-
7.5.8* Verification of Compliant Installation. (SIG-FUN)                                 ing of records by any means shall be permitted if hard copies of
7.5.8.1 Where required by the authority having jurisdiction,                             the records can be provided promptly when requested.
compliance of the completed installation with the require-                               7.7.1.3 If off-premises monitoring is provided, records of all
ments of this Code shall be certified by a qualified and impar-                          signals, tests, and operations recorded at the supervising
tial third-party organization acceptable to the authority having                         station, including the public emergency alarm reporting
jurisdiction.                                                                            system, shall be maintained by the off-premise monitoring serv-
7.5.8.2 Verification of compliant installation shall be                                  ice provider for not less than 1 year unless more stringent
performed according to testing requirements and procedures                               requirements are required elsewhere in this Code.
specified in 14.4.1 and 14.4.2.

2019 Edition             Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          DOCUMENTATION                                           72-41

7.7.1.4 Required documents regarding system design and                        7.7.3 Document Security. (SIG-ECS)
function shall be maintained for the life of the system.
                                                                              7.7.3.1 Security for system's documentation shall be deter-
7.7.1.5 The emergency communications system and fire alarm                    mined by the stakeholders.
system as-built plans and other related documentation shall be
permitted to be maintained together, including the appearance                 7.7.3.2* Where such documents cannot be protected from
of both systems on the same drawings. (SIG-ECS)                               public access, it shall be permitted to remove sensitive informa-
                                                                              tion from record documents provided the owner retains
7.7.1.6 Revisions and alterations to systems shall be recorded                complete documentation that will be made accessible to the
and records maintained with the original system design docu-                  authority having jurisdiction at an owner designated location.
ments.
                                                                              7.8 Forms.
7.7.2 Document Accessibility. (SIG-FUN)
                                                                              7.8.1 General.
   7.7.2.1 With every new system, a documentation cabinet shall
   be installed at the system control unit or at another approved             7.8.1.1* The requirements of Section 7.8 shall apply only
   location at the protected premises.                                        where required by other governing laws, codes, or standards; by
                                                                              other parts of this Code; or by project specifications or draw-
Y 7.7.2.2 The documentation cabinet shall be sized so that it can             ings. (SIG-FUN)
L contain all necessary documentation.                                        7.8.1.2 Where specific forms are required by other governing
N 7.7.2.3* All record documentation shall be stored in the docu-              laws, codes, or standards; by other parts of this Code; or by
                                                                              project specifications or drawings, form layouts and content
   mentation cabinet. No record documentation shall be stored in              that differ from those in Section 7.8 shall be permitted provi-
                                                                              ded that the minimum required content is included. (SIG-
O the control unit.                                                           FUN)
                                                                              7.8.2 Forms for Documentation. Forms for documentation
   7.7.2.4 Where the documentation cabinet is not in the same                 shall be as follows:
                                                                              (1)* Unless otherwise permitted or required in 7.5.6 or
E location as the system control unit, its location shall be identi-
                                                                                     7.8.1.2, Figure 7.8.2(a) through Figure 7.8.2(f) shall be
   fied at the system control unit.                                                  used to document the record of completion and inspec-
                                                                                     tion. (SIG-FUN)
S 7.7.2.5 The documentation cabinet shall be prominently                      (2)* Unless otherwise permitted or required in 7.6.6 or
                                                                                     7.8.1.2, Figure 7.8.2(g) through Figure 7.8.2(l) shall be
   labeled SYSTEM RECORD DOCUMENTS.                                                  used to document the record of inspection and testing.
                                                                                     (SIG-TMS)
U 7.7.2.6* The building owner or the building owner's represen-               (3) Where a form is required by the AHJ to document the
L tative shall, on an annual basis, review any electronic documen-                   installation and inspection of a household fire alarm
                                                                                     system or single- or multiple-station alarms, Figure
   tation media formats and associated interfacing hardware for                      7.8.2(m) can be used to document the record of comple-
                                                                                     tion and inspection.
A compatibility and update, if necessary.

   7.7.2.7 The contents of the cabinet shall be accessible by

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U authorized personnel only.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 7.7.2.8 Emergency communications system and fire alarm

   system record documentation shall be permitted to be main-

FOR INDIV tained together in the same documentation cabinet.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-42                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                           SYSTEM RECORD OF COMPLETION

              This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
                       It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                     Insert N/A in all unused lines.
                             Attach additional sheets, data, or calculations as necessary to provide a complete record.

                 Form Completion Date:                              Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

       Name of property:
       Address:

       Y Description of property:
       L Name of property representative:

       Address:

       N Phone:
O 2. INSTALLATION, SERVICE, TESTING, AND MONITORING INFORMATIONFax:              E-mail:

       E Address:
       S Phone:
       Installation contractor:

       U Address:                       Fax:                                     E-mail:

       L Phone:
       Service organization:

       A Address:                       Fax:                                     E-mail:

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Phone:
       Testing organization:

       ID Monitoring organization:
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Effective date for test and inspection contract:Fax:
                                                                                 E-mail:

       IV Phone:
       Address:
       D Means of transmission:
                                        Fax:                                     E-mail:

       IN Entity to which alarms are retransmitted:  Phone line 1:                        Phone line 2:
       Account number:

3. DOCUMENTATION                                                                          Phone:

R On-site location of the required record documents and site-specific software:
O4. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE
FThis is a:  New system  Modification to existing system            Permit number:

       NFPA 72 edition:

       4.1 Control Unit                                             Model number:
       Manufacturer:

       4.2 Software and Firmware
       Firmware revision number:

   4.3 Alarm Verification                                            This system does not incorporate alarm verification.
   Number of devices subject to alarm verification:
                                                                    Alarm verification set for           seconds
© 2018 National Fire Protection Association
                                                                                                         NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(a) System Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)

2019 Edition                     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                              DOCUMENTATION                                                                           72-43

                                SYSTEM RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

5. SYSTEM POWER

5.1 Control Unit

5.1.1 Primary Power                                                    Control panel amps:
Input voltage of control panel:                                        Amps:
Overcurrent protection: Type:                                          Number:
Branch circuit disconnecting means location:

5.1.2 Secondary Power
Y Calculated capacity of secondary power to drive the system:
Type of secondary power:
L In standby mode (hours):
Location, if remote from the plant:

N 5.2 Control Unit
O  This system does not have power extender panels

 Power extender panels are listed on supplementary sheet A
                                                             In alarm mode (minutes):

E 6. CIRCUITS AND PATHWAYS
    S Pathway Type
 U Signaling Line                            Dual Media      Separate            Class                           Survivability
                                               Pathway       Pathway                                                   Level
        Device Power

 L Initiating Device
 A Notification Appliance
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Other (specify):
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 7. REMOTE ANNUNCIATORS
    IV Type
IND 8. INITIATING DEVICES                                              Location

   RType                        Quantity     Addressable or    Alarm or                                            Sensing
                                              Conventional   Supervisory                                         Technology
          Manual Pull Stations

FOSmoke Detectors
Duct Smoke Detectors

Heat Detectors
Gas Detectors

Carbon Monoxide Detectors
Waterflow Switches

Tamper Switches

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                      NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(a) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-44                                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                 SYSTEM RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

9. NOTIFICATION APPLIANCES

                       Type                             Quantity                    Description
Audible
Visual
Combination Audible and Visual

10. SYSTEM CONTROL FUNCTIONS                            Type                                                Quantity

Y Hold-Open Door Releasing Devices
L HVAC Shutdown
N Fire/Smoke Dampers

 Door Unlocking

O Elevator Recall

 Elevator Shunt Trip
USE 11. INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS
       L  This system does not have interconnected systems.
       A  Interconnected systems are listed on supplementary sheet
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 12. CERTIFICATION AND APPROVALS                              .
 ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 12.1 System Installation Contractor

       This system as specified herein has been installed according to all NFPA standards cited herein.
       IV Signed:

       Organization:
       D 12.2 System Operational Test                             Printed name:                     Date:
       IN This system as specified herein has tested according to all NFPA standards cited herein.Title:Phone:

       Signed:                                                    Printed name:                     Date:
                                                                  Title:                            Phone:
       R Organization:
 O12.3 Acceptance Test
FDate and time of acceptance test:
       Installing contractor representative:

       Testing contractor representative:

       Property representative:

       AHJ representative:

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                      NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(a) Continued

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                               DOCUMENTATION                                                                          72-45

                       EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                      SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

        This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes systems and components
                                           specific to emergency communications systems.

This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
         It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                       Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Form Completion Date:                          Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

    Name of property:

Y Address:
L 2. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE
N  Fire alarm with in-building fire emergency voice alarm communication system (EVAC)
O  Mass notification system
 Combination system, with the following components:

E  Fire alarm  EVACS  MNS  Two-way, in-building, emergency communications system
S  Other (specify):
L U 2.1 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice Alarm Communications System
NFPA 72 edition:                             Additional description of system(s):

A Manufacturer:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Number of single voice alarm channels:                         Model number:
ID Location of amplification and sound processing equipment:
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Number of loudspeakers:
                                                              Number of multiple voice alarm channels:

  DIV Location of paging microphone stations:                 Number of loudspeaker circuits:
  IN Location 1:

             Location 2:
             Location 3:

  R2.2 Mass Notification System
FO2.2.1 System Type:
 In-building MNS­combination

 In-building MNS  Wide-area MNS  Distributed recipient MNS

 Other (specify):

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                      NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(b) Emergency Communications System Supplementary Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-46                                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                     EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                            SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

2. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE (continued)

       2.2.2 System Features:

        Combination fire alarm/MNS  MNS autonomous control unit  Wide-area MNS to regional national alerting interface
        Local operating console (LOC)  Distributed-recipient MNS (DRMNS)  Wide-area MNS to DRMNS interface
        Wide-area MNS to high power loudspeaker array (HPLA) interface  In-building MNS to wide-area MNS interface

        Other (specify):

       2.2.3 MNS Local Operating Consoles
       Location 1:

       Y Location 2:
       L Location 3:
       N 2.2.4 High Power Loudspeaker Arrays
       O Number of HPLA loudspeaker initiation zones:

       Location 1:

       E Location 2:
       S Location 3:
       U Combination fire alarm/MNS visual devices:
       L Textual signs:
       2.2.5 Mass Notification Devices

       A Supervision class:                                                                 MNS-only visual devices:

                                                        Other (describe):
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 2.2.6 Special Hazard Notification
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  This system does not have special suppression predischarge notification.
ID  MNS systems DO NOT override notification appliances required to provide special suppression predischarge notification.
IV 3. TWO-WAY EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
       D Number of telephone jacks installed:
       IN Number of telephone handsets stored on site:
       3.1 Telephone System

                                                                           Number of warden stations installed:

       R 3.2 Area of Refuge (Area of Rescue Assistance) Emergency Communications Systems
       Type of telephone system installed:  Electrically powered  Sound powered

FODays and hours when central control point is attended:
       Number of stations:                              Location of central control point:

       Location of alternate control point:

       Days and hours when alternate control point is attended:

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(b) Continued

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                      DOCUMENTATION                                                                                   72-47

         EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

3. TWO-WAY EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (continued)

3.3 Elevator Emergency Communications Systems

Number of elevators with stations:    Location of central control point:

Days and hours when central control point is attended:

Location of alternate control point:

Days and hours when alternate control point is attended:

Y 3.4 Other Two-Way Communications System

Describe:
NL 4. CONTROL FUNCTIONS

    This system activates the following control functions specific to emergency communications systems:
                                      O Type
E Mass Notification Override of Alarm Signaling Systems or Appliances                                            Quantity
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-AB3L68-U41SDE5BD47BC8} See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.
 ID © 2018 National Fire Protection Association
FOR INDIV  FIGURE 7.8.2(b) Continued                                                                             NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 3)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-48                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                           POWER SYSTEMS
                                       SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

                    This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes systems and components specific
              to power systems that incorporate generators, ESS systems, remote battery systems, or other complex power systems.

                  This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
                           It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                          Insert N/A in all unused lines.

                  Form Completion Date:                       Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

    Name of property:

Y Address:
NL 2. SYSTEM POWER
    2.1 Control Unit
O 2.1.1 Primary Power
    Input voltage of control panel:
E Overcurrent protection: Type:
S Location (of primary supply panelboard):
U Disconnecting means location:
                                                              Control panel amps:
                                                              Amps:

       L 2.1.2 Engine-Driven Generator

       Location of generator:

       A Location of fuel storage:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 2.1.3 Energy Storage Systems
       ID Equipment powered by ESS system:                    Type of fuel:

       IV Calculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:
       Location of ESS system:
       D In standby mode (hours):
       IN 2.1.4 Batteries                                     In alarm mode (minutes):

       R In standby mode (hours):Location:   Type:            Nominal voltage:                  Amp/hour rating:

FO2.2 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice Alarm Communications System or Mass Notification System
       Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

                                                              In alarm mode (minutes):

       2.2.1 Primary Power

       Input voltage of EVACS or MNS panel:                   EVACS or MNS panel amps:

       Overcurrent protection: Type:                          Amps:

       Location (of primary supply panelboard):

       Disconnecting means location:

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                           NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(c) Power Systems Supplementary Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)

2019 Edition      Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                               DOCUMENTATION                                                          72-49

                                               POWER SYSTEMS
                   SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

2. SYSTEM POWER (continued)                                    Type of fuel:

    2.2.2 Engine-Driven Generator
    Location of generator:
    Location of fuel storage:

2.2.3 Energy Storage Systems
Y Calculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:
Equipment powered by ESS system:
L In standby mode (hours):
Location of ESS system:

N 2.2.4 Batteries
                                                               In alarm mode (minutes):
O Location:
E In standby mode (hours):                                                                 Amp/hour rating:
                                                        Type:  Nominal voltage:
                                                               In alarm mode (minutes):
S 2.3 Notification Appliance Power Extender Panels
U  This system does not have power extender panels.
Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

  L 2.3.1 Primary Power

           Input voltage of power extender panel(s):

  A Overcurrent protection: Type:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Location (of primary supply panelboard):

  ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Disconnecting means location:
                                                               Power extender panel amps:
                                                               Amps:

2.3.2 Engine Driven Generator

IV Location of generator:

Location of fuel storage:
D 2.3.3 Energy Storage Systems
IN Equipment powered by ESS system:                            Type of fuel:

RCalculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:
Location of ESS system:
FO2.3.4 Batteries
In standby mode (hours):                                       In alarm mode (minutes):

Location:                                               Type:  Nominal voltage:            Amp/hour rating:

Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

In standby mode (hours):                                       In alarm mode (minutes):

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                           NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 3)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(c) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-50                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                          POWER SYSTEMS
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

2. SYSTEM POWER (continued)

       2.4 Supervising Station Transmission Equipment

        This system does not use transmission equipment within the building powered by any other source than the alarm
       system control unit.

       2.4.1 Primary Power

       Input voltage of shared transmission equipment:Amps:
       Shared transmission equipment panel amps:

       Y Overcurrent protection: Type:
       L Location (of primary supply panelboard):
       N Disconnecting means location:
       O 2.4.2 Engine Driven Generator

       Location of generator:

       E Location of fuel storage:
       S 2.4.3 Energy Storage Systems
                                                    Type of fuel:
       U Equipment powered by ESS system:
       L In standby mode (hours):
       A 2.4.4 Batteries
       Calculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:

                                                    In alarm mode (minutes):
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Location:
       ID In standby mode (hours):
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:
                                             Type:  Nominal voltage:                         Amp/hour rating:

              IV See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.
                                                    In alarm mode (minutes):

FOR IND  FIGURE 7.8.2(c) Continued                                                                              NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 3)
© 2018 National Fire Protection Association

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                 DOCUMENTATION                                                                                         72-51

                        NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE POWER PANEL
                      SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

       This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes a list of types and locations
                                           of notification appliance power extender panels.

This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
         It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                       Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Form Completion Date:            Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

    Name of property:

Y Address:
L 2. NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE POWER EXTENDER PANELS
N Make and Model
FOR INDIVIDUAL USE O {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C88-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}LocationArea ServedPower Source

                             See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.  NFPA 72

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association

 FIGURE 7.8.2(d) Notification Appliance Power Panel Supplementary Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-52                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                               INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS
                                    SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

                     This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes a list of types and locations
                                                    of systems that are interconnected to the main system.

              This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
                       It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                     Insert N/A in all unused lines.

              Form Completion Date:  Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

    Name of property:

Y Address:
L 2. INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS

   N Description
FOR INDIVIDUAL USE O {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C88-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}Location          Purpose

                             See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.     NFPA 72

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association

 FIGURE 7.8.2(e) Interconnected Systems Supplementary Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             DOCUMENTATION                                                                  72-53

              DEVIATIONS FROM ADOPTED CODES AND STANDARDS
                      SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

      This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It enables the designer and/or installer
                             to document and justify deviations from accepted codes or standards.

This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
         It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                       Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Form Completion Date:                        Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

    Name of property:

Y Address:
L 2. DEVIATIONS FROM ADOPTED CODES OR STANDARDS

     N Description
FOR INDIVIDUAL USE O {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C88-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Purpose

See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                        NFPA 72

 FIGURE 7.8.2(f) Deviations from Adopted Codes and Standards Supplementary Record of Completion. (SIG-FUN)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.             2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-54                                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                 SYSTEM RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING

              This form is to be completed by the system inspection and testing contractor at the time of a system test.
                  It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                Insert N/A in all unused lines.
                        Attach additional sheets, data, or calculations as necessary to provide a complete record.

       Inspection/ Test Start Date/Time:                 Inspection / Test Completion Date/Time:

                                          Supplemental Form(s) Attached:  (yes/no)

       Y Address:
1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

       L Description of property:
       Name of property:

       N Address:
       O Phone:
       Name of property representative:

E 2. TESTING AND MONITORING INFORMATION   Fax:                                           E-mail:

       S Address:
       U Phone:
       Testing organization:

       L Address:                         Fax:                                           E-mail:

       A Phone:                                                                          E-mail:
       Monitoring organization:                                                          Phone line 2:
                                                                                         Phone:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Account number:       Fax:
       ID Entity to which alarms are retransmitted:
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Means of transmission:
                                          Phone line 1:

IV 3. DOCUMENTATION
    Onsite location of the required record documents and site-specific software:
IND 4. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE
     4.1 Control Unit                                                     Model number:
      Manufacturer:
 R 4.2 Software Firmware

FOFirmware revision number:
       4.3 System Power

       4.3.1 Primary (Main) Power

       Nominal voltage:                         Amps:                     Location:

       Overcurrent protection type:             Amps:                     Disconnecting means location:

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                    NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 4)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(g) System Record of Inspection and Testing. (SIG-TMS)

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                 DOCUMENTATION                                                        72-55

                SYSTEM RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

4. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE (continued)

4.3.2 Secondary Power

Type:                                                                    Location:

Battery type (if applicable):

Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

In standby mode (hours):                                                 In alarm mode (minutes):

Y Monitoring organization
L Building management
5. NOTIFICATIONS MADE PRIOR TO TESTING

                                                       Contact:                                          Time:
N Authority having jurisdiction                                                                          Time:
                                                       Contact:                                          Time:
                                                                                                         Time:
O Other, if required                                   Contact:                                          Time:
Building occupants
                                                                                                   Comments
                                                       Contact:
                                                                                                   Comments
E 6. TESTING RESULTS                                   Contact:
S 6.1 Control Unit and Related Equipment
    U Description                                      Visual Functional

             Control unit                              Inspection  Test

  L Lamps/LEDs/LCDs                                                
  A Fuses
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Trouble signals                                

    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Disconnect switches                       

  ID Ground-fault monitoring                                       

             Supervision                                           

  IV Local annunciator                                             
  D Remote annunciators
  IN Remote power panels                                           

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

  R6.2 Secondary Power                                             
 O Description
F Battery condition                                    Visual Functional

                                                       Inspection  Test

                                                                   

Load voltage                                                       

Discharge test                                                     

Charger test                                                       

Remote panel batteries                                             

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 4)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(g) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-56                                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              SYSTEM RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

6. TESTING RESULTS (continued)
    6.3 Alarm and Supervisory Alarm Initiating Device

    Attach supplementary device test sheets for all initiating devices.

       6.4 Notification Appliances
       Attach supplementary appliance test sheets for all notification appliances.

       6.5 Interface Equipment
       Attach supplementary interface component test sheets for all interface components.

       Y Circuit Interface / Signaling Line Circuit Interface / Fire Alarm Control Interface
       L 6.6 Supervising Station Monitoring
              N Description
       O Alarm signal
                                                       Yes  No           Time                  Comments
       E Trouble signal                                                                        Comments
                                                            

       S Trouble restoration
       Alarm restoration                                    

       U Supervisory signal                                 

                                                            

       AL 6.7 Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System       

       Supervisory restoration                              

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Description                        Yes  No           Time
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Alarm signal
 ID Alarm restoration                                       
        Trouble signal
 IV Trouble restoration                                     
        Supervisory signal
                                                            
FOR IND Supervisory restoration
                                                            

                                                            

                                                            

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                          NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 4)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(g) Continued

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       DOCUMENTATION                                                                  72-57

               SYSTEM RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

7. NOTIFICATIONS THAT TESTING IS COMPLETE

Monitoring organization                                Contact:               Time:

Building management                                    Contact:               Time:

Building occupants                                     Contact:               Time:

Authority having jurisdiction                          Contact:               Time:

Other, if required                                     Contact:               Time:

8. SYSTEM RESTORED TO NORMAL OPERATION

Y Date:
L 9. CERTIFICATION                                                    Time:
N This system as specified herein has been inspected and tested according to NFPA 72,
O Signed:

Organization:

E Qualifications (refer to 10.5.3):
                                                       Printed name:            edition, Chapter 14.
                                                       Title:
                                                                              Date:
                                                                              Phone:
 S 10. DEFECTS OR MALFUNCTIONS NOT CORRECTED AT CONCLUSION OF SYSTEM INSPECTION,
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41DE5BD47BC8} TESTING,OR MAINTENANCE
10.1 Acceptance by Owner or Owner's Representative:

The undersigned accepted the test report for the system as specified herein:

Signed:                                                Printed name:          Date:
Organization:                                          Title:                 Phone:

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 4 of 4)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(g) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-58                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                     NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING

                                          This form is a supplement to the System Record of Inspection and Testing.
                                                             It includes a notification appliance test record.

              This form is to be completed by the system inspection and testing contractor at the time of the inspection and/or test.
                          It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                        Insert N/A in all unused lines.

       Inspection/Test Start Date/Time:      Inspection/Test Completion Date/Time:

                                             Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:
1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

Y Name of property:
L Address:
N 2. NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE TEST RESULTS
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD47BC8} Appliance Type
                                             Location / Identifier                   Test Results

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                        NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(h) Notification Appliance Supplementary Record of Inspection and Testing. (SIG-TMS)

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       DOCUMENTATION                                                                  72-59

                               NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

2. NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE TEST RESULTS (continued)

Appliance Type                                         Location / Identifier  Test Results

F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD4N7BLCY8}

See main System Record of Inspection and Testing for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(h) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-60                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                           INITIATING DEVICE
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING

                                          This form is a supplement to the System Record of Inspection and Testing.
                                                                It includes an initiating device test record.

              This form is to be completed by the system inspection and testing contractor at the time of the inspection and/or test.
                          It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                        Insert N/A in all unused lines.

       Inspection/Test Start Date/Time:           Inspection/Test Completion Date/Time:

                                         Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:
1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

Y Name of property:
L Address:
N 2. INITIATING DEVICE TEST RESULTS
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD47BC8} Device Type
                                         Address  Location                                    Test Results

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                         NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(i) Initiating Device Supplementary Record of Inspection and Testing. (SIG-TMS)

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                DOCUMENTATION                                                         72-61

                                     INITIATING DEVICE
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

2. INITIATING DEVICE TEST RESULTS (continued)

Device Type                                            Address                 Location                          Test Results

F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD4N7BLCY8}

See main System Record of Inspection and Testing for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(i) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-62                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                           MASS NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
                      SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING

                                          This form is a supplement to the System Record of Inspection and Testing.
                                                          It includes a mass notification system test record.

              This form is to be completed by the system inspection and testing contractor at the time of the inspection and/or test.
                          It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                        Insert N/A in all unused lines.

       Inspection/Test Start Date/Time:                       Inspection/Test Completion Date/ Time:

                                             Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:
1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

Y Name of property:
L Address:
N 2. MASS NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
O 2.1 System Type

     In-building MNS--combination

E  In-building MNS--stand alone  Wide-area MNS
S  Other (specify):
                                                               Distributed recipient MNS
       U 2.2 System Features

        Combination fire alarm/MNS  MNS ACU only  Wide-area MNS to regional national alerting interface

       L  Local operating console (LOC)  Direct recipient MNS (DRMNS)  Wide-area MNS to DRMNS interface
       A  Wide-area MNS to high-power loudspeaker array (HPLA) interface  In-building MNS to wide-area MNS interface

        Other (specify):
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3. IN-BUILDING MASS NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
ID 3.1 Primary Power
IV Input voltage of MNS panel:
       3.2 Engine-Driven Generator                            MNS panel amps:

       D Location of generator:               This system does not have a generator.
       IN Location of fuel storage:                                           Type of fuel:

       R Location of ESS system:
       3.3 Energy Storage Systems  This system does not have an ESS.

       OCalculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:
       Equipment powered by an ESS system:

FIn standby mode (hours):                                     In alarm mode (minutes):

       3.4 Batteries

       Location:                  Type:                       Nominal voltage:                Amp/hour rating:

       Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

       In standby mode (hours):                               In alarm mode (minutes):

        Batteries are marked with date of manufacture.

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                           NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(j) Mass Notification System Supplementary Record of Inspection and Testing. (SIG-TMS)

2019 Edition          Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       DOCUMENTATION                                                                  72-63

                                    MASS NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
       SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

4. MASS NOTIFICATION EQUIPMENT TEST RESULTS

                                                       Visual Functional

             Description                               Inspection  Test   Comments

Functional test

Reset/power down test

Y ESS power testFuses

L Trouble signals
Primary power supply

N Disconnect switches
O CCU security mechanism
Ground-fault monitoring
E Prerecorded message content
S Software backup performed
U Test backup software
Prerecorded message activation

L Fire alarm to MNS interface
A In-building MNS to wide-area MNS
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} MNS to direct recipient MNS
MNS to fire alarm interface

ID Sound pressure levels

Occupied  Yes  No

IV Ambient dBA:

Alarm dBA:

D (attach supplementary notification

appliance form(s) with locations,
values, and weather conditions)
IN System intelligibility
RCIS value:
Test method:          Score:
                (attach supplementary notification
                appliance form(s) with locations,

FOvalues, and weather conditions)
Other (specify):

See main System Record of Inspection and Testing for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(j) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-64                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                     EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                          SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING

                                          This form is a supplement to the System Record of Inspection and Testing.
                                   It includes systems and components specific to emergency communication systems.
              This form is to be completed by the system inspection and testing contractor at the time of the inspection and/or test.
                          It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.

                                                                        Insert N/A in all unused lines.

       Inspection/Test Start Date/ Time:      Inspection/Test Completion Date/ Time:

                                                       Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

Y Name of property:
L Address:
N 2. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE
O  Fire alarm with in-building fire emergency voice alarm communication system (EVAC)

     Mass notification system

E  Combination system, with the following components:
 S  Fire alarm  EVACS  MNS  Two-way, in-building, emergency communication system
U  Other (specify):

    Additional description of system(s):
       AL 2.1 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice Alarm Communication System
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Manufacturer:
       ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Number of single voice alarm channels:
                                                                     Model number:

       IV Location of amplification and sound processing equipment:  Number of multiple voice alarm channels:

       Number of loudspeakers:                                       Number of loudspeaker circuits:

 IND Location of paging microphone stations:

      Location 1:

 R Location 2:

      Location 3:

FO2.2 Mass Notification System
       2.2.1 System Type:

        In-building MNS--combination

        In-building MNS  Wide-area MNS  Distributed recipient MNS

        Other (specify):

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                    NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 5)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(k) Emergency Communications Systems Supplementary Record of Inspection and Testing. (SIG-TMS)

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       DOCUMENTATION                                                                      72-65

                   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

2. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE (continued)

2.2.2 System Features:

 Combination fire alarm/MNS  MNS autonomous control unit  Wide-area MNS to regional national alerting interface
 Local operating console (LOC)  Distributed-recipient MNS (DRMNS)  Wide-area MNS to DRMNS interface
 Wide-area MNS to high-power loudspeaker array (HPLA) interface  In-building MNS to wide-area MNS interface

 Other (specify):
2.2.3 MNS Local Operating Consoles
Location 1:

Y Location 2:
L Location 3:
N 2.2.4 High-Power Loudspeaker Arrays
O Number of HPLA loudspeaker initiation zones:

Location 1:

E Location 2:
S Location 3:
U 2.2.5 Mass Notification Devices
L Textual signs:                                                                           MNS-only visual devices:
Combination fire alarm/MNS visual devices:
A Supervision class:
                                                       Other (describe):
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 2.2.6 Special Hazard Notification
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  This system does not have special suppression pre-discharge notification
  ID  MNS systems DO NOT override notification appliances required to provide special suppression pre-discharge notification
IV 3. TWO-WAY EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
D Number of telephone jacks installed:
IN Number of telephone handsets stored on site:
3.1 Telephone System

                                                                          Number of warden stations installed:

R3.2 Area of Refuge (Area of Rescue Assistance) Emergency Communications Systems
Type of telephone system installed:  Electrically powered  Sound powered

ONumber of stations:
F Days and hours when central control point is attended:
                                                       Location of central control point:

Location of alternate control point:

Days and hours when alternate control point is attended:

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 5)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(k) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-66                                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

3. TWO-WAY EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (continued)

       3.3 Elevator Emergency Communications Systems

       Number of elevators with stations:                Location of central control point:

       Days and hours when central control point is attended:

       Location of alternate control point:

       Days and hours when alternate control point is attended:
       3.4 Other Two-Way Communication System

       Y Describe:
L 4. TESTING RESULTS
       N 4.1 Control Unit and Related Equipment
              O Description
       E Control unit
                                                       Visual Functional

                                                       Inspection  Test                      Comments
       S Lamps/LEDs/LCDs                                                                     Comments
                                                                   

       U Trouble signals                                           

       Fuses                                                       
       L Ground fault monitoring
                                                                   
       A Supervision
       Disconnect switches                                         

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Local annunciator                              

                                                                   
       ID Remote power panels
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Remote annunciators                    

                                                                   
       IV Other:
                                                                   

      4.2 Secondary Power                                          

    IND Description                                    Visual Functional

       Battery condition                               Inspection  Test
       Load voltage
                                                                   
 R Discharge test
 OCharger test                                                     
FRemote panel batteries
                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                  NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 5)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(k) Continued

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                         DOCUMENTATION                                                                72-67

                   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

4. TESTING RESULTS (continued)
    4.3 Emergency Communications Equipment

                                                       Visual Functional

Description                                            Inspection  Test   Comments

Control unit                                                       

Lamps/LEDs/LCDs                                                    
Fuses
                                                                   
Y Secondary power supply
L Trouble signals                                                  

Disconnect switches                                                

N Ground fault monitoring                                          
O Panel supervision
                                                                   
System performance
                                                                   
E System audibility
S System intelligibility                                           

Other:                                                             
  L U 4.4 Mass Notification Equipment
     A Description                                                 

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Functional test                                
     8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Reset/Power down test
  ID Fuses                                             Visual Functional
              Primary power supply
  IV ESS power test                                    Inspection  Test   Comments
  D Trouble signals
              Disconnect switches                                  
  IN Ground fault monitoring
              CCU security mechanism                               
  RPrerecorded message content
              Prerecorded message activation                       

FOSoftware backup performed                                        

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

                                                                   

Test backup software                                               

Fire alarm to MNS Interface                                        

MNS to fire alarm interface                                        

In-building MNS to wide-area MNS                                   

MNS to direct recipient MNS                                        

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 4 of 5)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(k) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-68                                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

4. TESTING RESULTS (continued)

       4.4 Mass Notification Equipment (continued)

                                                       Visual Functional

              Description                              Inspection  Test                        Comments

       Sound pressure levels                                       

       (attach report with locations,                              
       values, and weather conditions)

       System intelligibility

       Y  CSI  STI
       L (attach report with locations,

       values, and weather conditions)

       N Other:
       O 4.5 Two-Way Communication Equipment                       

    E Description                                      Visual Functional
 S Phone handsets
 U Phone jacks                                         Inspection  Test                        Comments

      Off-hook indicator                                           

 L Call-in signal                                                  
 A System performance
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U System audibility                              

  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} System intelligibility                      

 ID Other:                                                         

                                                                   

                                                                   
FOR INDIV See main System Record of Inspection and Testing for additional information, certifications, and approvals.
                                                                   

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                    NFPA 72 (p. 5 of 5)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(k) Continued

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                      DOCUMENTATION                                                                           72-69

                        INTERFACE COMPONENT
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING

                                     This form is a supplement to the System Record of Inspection and Testing.
It includes an interface component test record for circuit interfaces, signaling line circuit interfaces, and fire alarm control interfaces.

         This form is to be completed by the system inspection and testing contractor at the time of the inspection and/or test.
                     It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                   Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Inspection/Test Start Date/Time:                      Inspection/Test Completion Date/Time:

                                             Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:
1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

Y Name of property:
L Address:
N 2. INTERFACE COMPONENT TEST RESULTS
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD47BC8} Interface Component Type
                                             Address                                 Location                    Test Results

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                      NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(l) Interface Component Supplementary Record of Inspection and Testing. (SIG-TMS)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-70                                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                              INTERFACE COMPONENT
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF INSPECTION AND TESTING (continued)

2. INTERFACE COMPONENT TEST RESULTS (continued)

       Interface Component Type                        Address  Location                       Test Results

F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD4N7BLCY8}

              See main System Record of Inspection and Testing for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                          NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 2)

 FIGURE 7.8.2(l) Continued

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                      DOCUMENTATION                                                          72-71

                                   INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION FORM
                             SINGLE- AND MULTIPLE-STATION ALARMS AND

                                     HOUSEHOLD FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS

This form is to be completed at the time of installation/final inspection of any household fire alarm system and single- or
multiple-station alarms. It is be permitted to modify this form as required to provide a more complete and/or clear record.

                                                            Insert N/A in all unused lines.
                            Attach additional sheets, data, or calculations as necessary to complete form.

Form Completion Date:                                 Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

Property Owner:
Address:

Y Phone:
L 2. INSTALLATION, CONTRACTOR, AND MONITORING INFORMATIONE-Mail:                    Other:
Installation Contractor:

N Address:
O Phone:
E Monitoring Organization:                   E-Mail:                                Other:

Address:
2.1 Type of Off-Premises Notification
S Phone:
U Account Number:
                                             E-Mail:                        Other:
                                                      Means of Transmission:
L NFPA 72 Edition:
A 3.1 Type of System
   Single-Station
3. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 3.2 Number of Devices
ID Single-Station Smoke Alarms:

Single-Station Heat Alarms:
                          Multiple-Station            Household Fire Alarm System           Carbon Monoxide Alarm System

IV Single-Station Carbon Monoxide Alarms:             Multiple-Station Smoke Alarms:
                                                      Multiple-Station Heat Alarms:
System Smoke Detectors:
D Waterflow Switches:                                 Multiple-Station Carbon Monoxide Alarms:
IN Interfaced/Other Equipment:                        System Heat Detectors:

Notification Appliances:                                                     Type:

FOR Device type, location and manufacture date of devices (date shown on back of devices)
3.3 Location (L) and Date (D) of Devices

Electrical Panel (L):                                 Breaker Number:

Alarm Control Unit (L):                               Battery Back-up (D):

Plug in Transformer (L):

Relay for Interconnection (L):

4. PREPARED BY                               Printed Name:                                  Date:
                                                              Organization:
Signed:
Title:

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                      NFPA 72

N FIGURE 7.8.2(m) Installation and Inspection Form Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms and Household Fire Alarm Systems.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

   72-72                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                      Chapter 8 Reserved                                 lamp, or textual display does not exceed 6 ft (1.8 m) above the
                                                                         finished floor, and the lowest switch, lamp, or textual display
                                                                         shall not be less than 15 in. (375 mm) above the finished floor.
                      Chapter 9 Reserved
                                                                         10.4.5* Unless otherwise permitted by 10.4.6, in areas that are
                                                                         not continuously occupied, early warning fire detection shall
                                                                         be at the location of each control unit(s), notification appli-
                      Chapter 10 Fundamentals                            ance circuit power extender(s), and supervising station trans-

   10.1 Application.                                                     mitting equipment to provide notification of fire at that
                                                                         location by one of the following means:
   10.1.1 The basic functions of a complete fire alarm and/or
   signaling system shall comply with the requirements of this              (1) An automatic smoke detector at the location of each
   chapter.                                                                        control unit(s), notification appliance circuit power
·  Y 18, 21, 23, 24, 26, and 27.                                                   extender(s), and supervising station transmitting equip-
N  10.1.2  The requirements of this chapter shall apply to systems,                ment
   L 10.1.3 The requirements of Chapter 7 shall apply where refer-
                                                                            (2) An automatic heat detector where ambient conditions
   enced in Chapter 10.                                                            prohibit installation of an automatic smoke detector
   equipment, and components addressed in Chapters 12, 14, 17,
                                                                         N 10.4.6 Smoke or heat detector(s) shall not be required to be
   N 10.2 Purpose. The purpose of fire alarm and signaling                  installed at the location of dedicated function(s) fire alarm
                                                                            control unit(s) that are not required to provide local or super-
   systems shall be primarily to provide notification of alarm,             vising station notification signals.
                                                                            10.4.7 Initiating Devices.
   O supervisory, and trouble conditions; to alert the occupants; to        10.4.7.1 Initiating devices of the manual or automatic type
                                                                            shall be selected and installed to minimize unwanted alarms.
   summon aid; and to control emergency control functions.                  10.4.7.2 Initiating devices shall comply with the requirements
   E 10.3 Equipment.                                                        of Chapter 17 and Chapter 23.
   S 10.3.1 Equipment constructed and installed in conformity               10.4.7.3 Manual alarms shall be initiated by one of the follow-
                                                                            ing ways:
   with this Code shall be listed for the purpose for which it is           (1) A listed manual fire alarm box
                                                                            (2) A key operated means
   U used.                                                                  (3) A means contained within a locked cabinet or arranged
   L 10.3.2 System components shall be installed, tested, inspected,               to provide equivalent protection against unauthorized
                                                                                   use
   and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's                     10.5 Personnel Qualifications.
                                                                            10.5.1 System Designer.
   A published instructions and this Code.                                  10.5.1.1 Plans and specifications shall be developed in accord-
                                                                            ance with this Code by persons who are experienced in the
                                                                            design, application, installation, and testing of the systems.
                                                                            10.5.1.2 State or local licensure regulations shall be followed
                                                                            to determine qualified personnel.
                                                                            10.5.1.3 Personnel shall provide documentation of their quali-
                                                                            fication by one or more of the following:
                                                                            (1) Registration, licensing, or certification by a state or local
                                                                                   authority
                                                                            (2) Certification by an organization acceptable to the author-
   10.3.3* All devices and appliances that receive their power

   {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U from the initiating device circuit or signaling line circuit of a

   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} control unit shall be listed for use with the control unit.
ID  10.3.4 All apparatus requiring rewinding or resetting to main-
   tain normal operation shall be restored to normal after each
IV abnormal condition.
   10.3.5 Equipment shall be designed so that it is capable of

   D performing its intended functions under the following condi-

   tions:

   IN (1)* At 85 percent and at 110 percent of the nameplate
          primary (main) and secondary (standby) input voltage(s)
   (2) At ambient temperatures of 32°F (0°C) and 120°F (49°C)

   R (3) At a relative humidity of 85 percent and an ambient
          temperature of 86°F (30°C)
   FO 10.4 Design and Installation.
   10.4.1* All systems shall be installed in accordance with the                ity having jurisdiction
   plans, specifications, and standards approved by the authority        (3) Manufacturer's certification for the specific type and
   having jurisdiction.
                                                                                brand of system provided

   10.4.2 Devices and appliances shall be located and mounted            10.5.1.4 The system designer shall be identified on the system
   so that accidental operation or failure is not caused by vibra-       design documents.
   tion or jarring.                                                      10.5.1.5 System design trainees shall be under the supervision
   10.4.3 Equipment shall be installed in locations where condi-         of a qualified system designer.
   tions do not exceed the voltage, temperature, and humidity            10.5.1.6 The system designer shall provide evidence of their
   limits specified in the manufacturer's published instructions.        qualifications and/or certifications when required by the
N 10.4.4* Unless otherwise permitted by the authority having             authority having jurisdiction.
   jurisdiction, control unit displays, visible indicators, or controls
   shall be mounted such that the distance to the highest switch,

   2019 Edition                      Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                         FUNDAMENTALS                                                                    72-73

10.5.2 System Installer.                                                         10.5.3.5.2 System installation personnel shall be permitted to
                                                                                 configure systems in the field per manufacturers' published
10.5.2.1 Installation personnel shall be qualified or shall be                   instructions.
supervised by persons who are qualified in the installation,
inspection, and testing of the systems.                                          10.5.3.5.3 System end users shall be permitted to manage
                                                                                 system operation per manufacturers' published instructions or
10.5.2.2 State or local licensure regulations shall be followed                  training.
to determine qualified personnel.
                                                                                 10.5.3.6 Evidence of Qualification. Evidence of qualifications
10.5.2.3 Personnel shall provide documentation of their quali-                   shall be provided to the authority having jurisdiction upon
fication by one or more of the following:                                        request.

(1) Registration, licensing, or certification by a state or local                10.5.4 Plans Examiners and Inspectors.
       authority
   (2) Certification by an organization acceptable to the author-
          ity having jurisdiction                                                10.5.4.1 Plans and specifications submitted for review and
                                                                                 approval shall be reviewed by personnel who are qualified to
   (3) Manufacturer's certification for the specific type and                    review such plans and specifications.
                                                                                 10.5.4.2 System installations shall be inspected by personnel
  Y brand of system provided                                                     who are qualified to perform such inspections.
L 10.5.2.4 System installation trainees shall be under the super-                10.5.4.3 State or local licensure regulations shall be followed
                                                                                 to determine qualified personnel.
   vision of a qualified system installer.                                       10.5.4.4 Personnel shall provide documentation of their quali-
                                                                                 fications by one or more of the following:
N 10.5.2.5 The system installer shall provide evidence of their                  (1) Registration, licensing, or certification by a state or local

   qualifications and/or certifications when requested by the                           authority
                                                                                 (2) Meeting the requirements of NFPA 1031
O authority having jurisdiction.                                                 (3) Assignment by the authority having jurisdiction to person-

   10.5.3* Inspection, Testing, and Service Personnel. (SIG-TMS)                        nel having equivalent competency with 10.5.4.4(1) or
                                                                                        10.5.4.4(2)
E 10.5.3.1* Inspection Personnel. Inspections shall be                           10.5.5 Supervising Station Operators. (SIG-SSS)
S performed by personnel who have developed competence                           10.5.5.1 All operators in the supervising station shall demon-
                                                                                 strate competence in all tasks required of them in Chapter 26
   through training and experience that are acceptable to the                    by one or more of the following:
                                                                                 (1) Certified by the manufacturer of the receiving system or
U authority having jurisdiction or meet the requirement of                              equipment or the alarm-monitoring automation system
                                                                                 (2)* Certified by an organization acceptable to the authority
   10.5.3.4.                                                                            having jurisdiction
                                                                                 (3) Licensed or certified by a state or local authority
L 10.5.3.2* Testing Personnel. Testing personnel shall have                      (4) Other training or certification approved by the authority
A knowledge and experience of the testing requirements                                  having jurisdiction
                                                                                 10.5.5.2 Evidence of qualifications and/or certification shall
   contained in this Code, of the equipment being tested, and of                 be provided when requested by the authority having jurisdic-
                                                                                 tion. A license or qualification listing shall be current in
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the test methods. That knowledge and experience shall be     accordance with the requirements of the issuing authority or
                                                                                 organization.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction or meet the10.5.5.3 Operator trainees shall be under the direct supervi-
                                                                                 sion of a qualified operator until qualified as required by
ID requirement of 10.5.3.4.                                                      10.5.5.1.

   10.5.3.3 Service Personnel. Service personnel shall have

IV knowledge and experience of the maintenance and servicing

   requirements contained in this Code, of the equipment being
   serviced or maintained, and of the servicing or maintenance

D methods. That knowledge and experience shall be acceptable

   to the authority having jurisdiction or meet the requirement of

IN 10.5.3.4.

   10.5.3.4 Means of Qualification. Qualified personnel shall
   include, but not be limited to, one or more of the following:

R (1)* Personnel who are factory trained and certified for the
          specific type and brand of system being serviced

O(2)* Personnel who are certified by a nationally recognized
F certification organization acceptable to the authority

          having jurisdiction
(3)* Personnel who are registered, licensed, or certified by a
state or local authority to perform service on systems                           10.5.6 Public Emergency Alarm Reporting System Personnel
addressed within the scope of this Code, either individu-                        Qualification. (SIG-PRS)

ally or through their affiliation with an organization                           10.5.6.1 System Designer.

(4) Personnel who are employed and qualified by an organi-                       10.5.6.1.1 Public emergency alarm reporting system plans and
       zation listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory               specifications shall be developed in accordance with this Code
       for the servicing of systems within the scope of this Code                by persons who are qualified in the proper design, application,

10.5.3.5* Programming Personnel.                                                 installation, and testing of public emergency alarm reporting
10.5.3.5.1 Personnel programming a system shall be certified                     systems.

by the system manufacturer.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-74                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

10.5.6.1.2 The system design documents shall include the              10.6.4.3 The ESS device shall comply with the requirements of
name and contact information of the system designer.                  10.6.5.

10.5.6.2 System Installer. Installation personnel shall be quali-     10.6.4.4 Failure of the ESS shall result in the initiation of a
fied in the installation, inspection, and testing of public emer-     trouble signal in accordance with Section 10.15.
gency alarm reporting systems.
                                                                      10.6.5 Primary Power Supply.
10.5.6.3 Service Personnel. Service personnel shall be quali-
fied in the service, inspection, maintenance, and testing of          10.6.5.1 Branch Circuit.

public emergency alarm reporting systems.                             10.6.5.1.1 The branch circuit supplying the equipment shall

10.5.6.4 Qualification.                                               be supplied by one of the following:

   10.5.6.4.1 Personnel shall demonstrate qualification by being      (1) Electric utility
   trained and certified in public emergency alarm reporting          (2) An engine-driven generator or equivalent in accordance
   system design, installation, or service (as appropriate).
                                                                             with 10.6.11.2, where a person trained in its operation is
Y 10.5.6.4.2 Personnel who are trained and certified for the                 on duty at all times
                                                                      (3) An engine-driven generator or equivalent arranged for
   specific type of public emergency alarm reporting system and              cogeneration with an electric utility in accordance with
                                                                             10.6.11.2, where a person trained in its operation is on
L comply with one the following shall be considered qualified:               duty at all times
N (1) Personnel who are licensed or certified by a state or local     10.6.5.1.2* The branch circuit supplying the equipment shall
                                                                      supply no other loads.
           authority, if applicable                                   10.6.5.2 Circuit Identification and Accessibility.
   (2)* Personnel who are certified by a nationally recognized        10.6.5.2.1 The location of the branch circuit disconnecting
                                                                      means shall be permanently identified at the control unit.
  O certification organization acceptable to the authority            10.6.5.2.2* The system circuit disconnecting means shall be
                                                                      marked to identify the system or equipment that it serves.
           having jurisdiction                                        10.6.5.2.3 For fire alarm and/or signaling systems, the circuit
                                                                      disconnecting means shall have a red marking.
E (3) Personnel who are employed and qualified by an organi-          10.6.5.2.4 The red marking shall not damage the overcurrent
           zation listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratoryprotective devices or obscure the manufacturer's markings.
  S for the design, installation, or servicing of systems within      10.6.5.2.5 The circuit disconnecting means shall be accessible
           the scope of this chapter                                  only to authorized personnel.
                                                                      10.6.5.3 Mechanical Protection. The branch circuit(s) and
U (4)* Personnel who are employed and certified by an equip-          connections shall be protected against physical damage.
           ment manufacturer for the specific type of system          10.6.5.4 Circuit Breaker Lock. Where a circuit breaker is the
                                                                      disconnecting means, an approved breaker locking device shall
L 10.5.6.4.3 Evidence of qualifications and/or certification shall    be installed.
                                                                      10.6.5.5 Overcurrent Protection. An overcurrent protective
   be provided when requested by the authority having jurisdic-       device shall be provided in accordance with NFPA 70.
                                                                      10.6.6* Continuity of Power Supplies.
A tion. A license or qualification listing shall be current in        10.6.6.1 The secondary power supply shall automatically
                                                                      provide power to the protected premises system within
   accordance with the requirements of the issuing authority or       10 seconds whenever the primary power supply voltage is insuf-
                                                                      ficient for required system operation.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U organization.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 10.6 Power Supplies.

 10.6.1* Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to

IV power supplies.

   10.6.2 Code Conformance. All power supplies shall be instal-

D led in accordance with applicable requirements of NFPA 70.
IN 10.6.3 Power Supply Sources.

   10.6.3.1 Power shall be supplied in accordance with either
   10.6.3.2 or 10.6.4.

R 10.6.3.2 Unless configured in compliance with 10.6.4, at least

   two independent and reliable power supplies shall be provided,

O one primary and one secondary.
F10.6.3.3 Each power supply shall be of adequate capacity for
the application.                                                      10.6.6.2 The secondary power supply shall automatically

10.6.3.4 Monitoring the integrity of power supplies shall be in       provide power to the supervising station facility and equipment
                                                                      within 60 seconds whenever the primary power supply voltage
accordance with 10.6.9.                                               is insufficient for required system operation.

10.6.4* Energy Storage Systems (ESS).                                 10.6.6.3 Required signals shall not be lost, interrupted, or
                                                                      delayed by more than 10 seconds as a result of the primary
10.6.4.1 The ESS device shall be configured in compliance
with NFPA 111 for a Type O, Class 24, Level 1 system.
                                                                      power failure.

N 10.6.4.2 Where connected to an engine-driven generator              10.6.6.3.1 Storage batteries dedicated to the system or ESS
   arranged in accordance with 10.6.11.3.1, the ESS device shall      arranged in accordance with the provisions of NFPA 111 shall
   be permitted to be configured in compliance with NFPA 111          be permitted to supplement the secondary power supply to
   for a Type O, Class 4, Level 1 system.                             ensure required operation during the transfer period.

2019 Edition             Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

       FUNDAMENTALS                                                                                              72-75

10.6.6.3.2 Where an ESS is employed in 10.6.6.3.1, a positive           ide detection system and all carbon monoxide notification
means for disconnecting the input and output of the ESS                 appliances for 12 hours.
system while maintaining continuity of power supply to the           N 10.6.7.2.4 Where carbon monoxide detection is monitored by
load shall be provided.                                                 a supervising station, the secondary power supply shall have
10.6.7 Secondary Power Supply.                                          sufficient capacity to operate the carbon monoxide detection
10.6.7.1 Secondary Power Operation.                                     system under quiescent load (system operating in a nonalarm
10.6.7.1.1 Operation on secondary power shall not affect the            condition) for a minimum of 24 hours and, at the end of that
required performance of a system or supervising station facility,       period, shall be capable of operating the carbon monoxide
including alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals and indica-           detection system and all notification appliances for 5 minutes.
tions.                                                                  10.6.7.3* Secondary Power Supply for Protected Premises Fire
                                                                        Alarm Systems and Emergency Communications Systems.

   Exception: While operating on secondary power, audio amplifier moni-                               10.6.7.3.1 The secondary power supply shall consist of one of
   toring shall be required only when an alarm is present.                                            the following:
                                                                                                      (1) A storage battery dedicated to the system arranged in
Y 10.6.7.2* Capacity.
L 10.6.7.2.1 The secondary power supply shall have sufficient                                                accordance with 10.6.10
                                                                                                      (2) An automatic-starting, engine-driven generator serving
   capacity to operate the system under quiescent load (system
                                                                                                             the branch circuit specified in 10.6.5.1 and arranged in
N operating in a nonalarm condition) for a minimum of 24 hours                                               accordance with 10.6.11.3.1, and storage batteries dedica-
                                                                                                             ted to the system with 4 hours of capacity arranged in
   and, at the end of that period, shall be capable of operating all                                         accordance with 10.6.10
                                                                                                      10.6.7.3.2 Secondary circuits that provide power to the
O alarm notification appliances used for evacuation or to direct                                      control unit and are not integral to the unit shall be protected
                                                                                                      against physical damage.
   aid to the location of an emergency for 5 minutes, unless other-                                   10.6.7.4 Secondary Power Supply for Supervising Station
   wise permitted or required by 10.6.7.2.1.1 through 10.6.7.2.2.                                     Facilities.
                                                                                                      10.6.7.4.1 The secondary power supply shall consist of one of
E 10.6.7.2.1.1* Battery calculations shall include a minimum                                          the following:
S 20 percent safety margin above the calculated amp-hour                                              (1) Storage batteries dedicated to the supervising station
                                                                                                             equipment arranged in accordance with 10.6.10
   capacity required.                                                                                 (2) A branch circuit of an automatic-starting, engine-driven
                                                                                                             generator arranged in accordance with 10.6.11.3.2.1 and
U 10.6.7.2.1.2 The secondary power supply for in-building fire                                               10.6.11.3.2.2, and storage batteries dedicated to the
                                                                                                             supervising station equipment with 4 hours of capacity
   emergency voice/alarm communications service shall be capa-                                               arranged in accordance with 10.6.10
                                                                                                      (3) A branch circuit of multiple engine-driven generators, at
L ble of operating the system under quiescent load for a mini-                                               least one of which is arranged for automatic starting in
                                                                                                             accordance with 10.6.11.3.2.1 and 10.6.11.3.2.2
   mum of 24 hours and then shall be capable of operating the                                         10.6.7.4.2 Where a secondary power supply for supervising
                                                                                                      station facilities in accordance with 10.6.7.4.1(3) is used, the
A system during a fire or other emergency condition for a period                                      following shall apply:
                                                                                                      (1) Each generator shall be capable of supplying the energy
   of 15 minutes at maximum connected load.                                                                  required.
                                                                                                      (2) Generators that are started manually shall be arranged in
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 10.6.7.2.1.3 The secondary power supply capacity for supervis-       accordance with 10.6.11.3.2.3 and 10.6.11.3.2.4.
ID ing station facilities and equipment shall be capable of support-                                  (3) When manual-start generators are employed, a person
                                                                                                             trained in the procedure of starting the generator shall
   ing operations for a minimum of 24 hours.                                                                 be on duty at all times.

IV 10.6.7.2.1.4 The secondary power supply for high-power loud-

   speaker arrays used for wide-area mass notification systems shall
   be in accordance with 24.6.5.2.

D 10.6.7.2.1.5 The secondary power supply for textual visual
IN notification appliances shall be in accordance with 24.6.10.1.

   10.6.7.2.1.6 The secondary power supply capacity for emer-
   gency command centers of a wide-area mass notification

R systems shall be capable of supporting operations for a mini-

   mum of 24 hours.

O10.6.7.2.1.7 The secondary power supply for in-building mass
Fnotification systems shall be capable of operating the system

   under quiescent load for a minimum of 24 hours and then
   shall be capable of operating the system during emergency
conditions for a period of 15 minutes at maximum connected
load.                                                                                                 10.6.8 Power Supply for Remotely Located Control Equip-
                                                                                                      ment.

   10.6.7.2.2 The secondary power supply capacity required shall                                      10.6.8.1* Additional power supplies required for system oper-
   include all power supply loads that are not automatically                                          ation shall comply with 10.6.1 through 10.6.6 and with 10.6.9.
   disconnected upon the transfer to secondary power supply.                                          10.6.8.2 The location of remotely located power supplies shall
N 10.6.7.2.3* Where carbon monoxide detection is not moni-                                            be identified at the master control unit.
   tored by a supervising station, the secondary power supply shall                                   10.6.8.3 The master control unit display shall be permitted to
   have sufficient capacity to operate the carbon monoxide detec-                                     satisfy the requirement of 10.6.8.2.
   tion system under quiescent load (system operating in a nona-
   larm condition) for a minimum of 24 hours and, at the end of
   that period, shall be capable of operating the carbon monox-

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-76                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

10.6.8.4 The location of remotely located power supplies shall                    10.6.10.2.5 Batteries shall be protected from physical damage.
be identified on the record drawings.                                             10.6.10.2.6 Battery racks shall be protected against corrosion.
10.6.9 Monitoring Integrity of Power Supplies.                                    10.6.10.2.7 If not located in or adjacent to the control unit,
10.6.9.1 Unless otherwise permitted or required by 10.6.9.1.3                     the batteries and their charger location shall be permanently
and 10.6.9.1.6, all primary and secondary power supplies shall                    identified at the control unit.
be monitored for the presence of voltage at the point of                          10.6.10.3 Battery Charging.
connection to the system.

10.6.9.1.1 Failure of either the primary or secondary power                       10.6.10.3.1 Battery charging equipment shall be provided to
supply shall result in a trouble signal in accordance with                        keep the battery fully charged under normal conditions.

Section 10.15.                                                                    10.6.10.3.2 Battery charging equipment shall be provided to

10.6.9.1.2 Power failure indication for a digital alarm commu-                    recharge batteries within 48 hours after fully charged batteries
nicator transmitter (DACT) powered from a protected prem-                         have been subject to a single discharge cycle as specified in
ises fire alarm system control unit shall be in accordance with                   10.6.7.2.
                                                                                  10.6.10.3.3 The battery charging equipment operation shall
Y 10.6.9.1.                                                                       not damage the battery.
L 10.6.9.1.3 Monitoring shall not be required for a power supply                  10.6.10.3.4* Batteries shall be charged by listed means.
                                                                                  10.6.10.3.5 Provisions for repair or replacement of failed
for supplementary equipment.                                                      battery charger equipment shall be maintained at supervising
                                                                                  stations and used to restore operation prior to depletion of
N 10.6.9.1.4 Monitoring shall not be required for the neutral of                  one-half of the battery capacity.
O a three-, four-, or five-wire ac or dc supply source.                           10.6.10.4 Overcurrent Protection. Overcurrent devices shall
                                                                                  be provided to protect the batteries from excessive load
10.6.9.1.5 Monitoring shall not be required for the main                          current.
                                                                                  10.6.10.5 Metering. The battery charging equipment shall
E power supply in a supervising station if its failure is otherwise               include integral meters or readily accessible terminals so that
                                                                                  portable meters can be used to determine battery voltage and
indicated and obvious to the operator on duty.                                    charging current.
                                                                                  10.6.10.6 Monitoring Integrity of Battery Charging Equipment.
S 10.6.9.1.6 Monitoring shall not be required for the output of                   10.6.10.6.1 Means shall be provided to detect the failure of a
                                                                                  battery charger.
an engine-driven generator that is part of the secondary power                    10.6.10.6.2 Failure of the battery charger shall result in a trou-
                                                                                  ble signal in accordance with Section 10.15.
U supply, provided the generator is tested weekly in accordance                   10.6.11 Engine-Driven Generators.
                                                                                  10.6.11.1 Application and Installation. The application and
with Chapter 14.                                                                  installation of engine-driven generators shall be as specified in
                                                                                  10.6.11.2 through 10.6.11.7.
L 10.6.9.2* Power supply sources and electrical supervision for                   10.6.11.2 Primary Power Supply.
A digital alarm communications systems shall be in accordance                     10.6.11.2.1 Engine-driven generators arranged as the primary
                                                                                  supply shall be designed in an approved manner.
with Section 10.6, 10.6.9, Section 10.19, and Section 12.6.                       10.6.11.2.2 Engine-driven generators arranged as the primary
                                                                                  supply shall be installed in an approved manner.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 10.6.9.3* Supervising station alarm systems shall be arranged
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} to delay transmission of primary power failure signals for

60 minutes to 180 minutes unless a delay is not permitted by
the authority having jurisdiction.

IV 10.6.9.4 Power supervisory devices used to monitor the integ-

rity of power supplies shall not impair the receipt of fire alarm

D or supervisory signals.

10.6.10* Storage Batteries.

IN 10.6.10.1 Marking.

10.6.10.1.1 Batteries shall be marked with the month and year

R of manufacture using the month/year format.
O 10.6.10.1.2 Where the battery is not marked with the month/

year by the manufacturer, the installer shall obtain the date-

Fcode and mark the battery with the month/year of battery
manufacture.                                                                      10.6.11.3 Secondary Power Supplies.

10.6.10.2 Arrangement.                                                            10.6.11.3.1 Protected Premises.

10.6.10.2.1 Storage batteries shall comply with the require-                      10.6.11.3.1.1 Engine-driven generators used to provide secon-
ments of Article 480 of NFPA 70.                                                  dary power for a protected premises fire alarm system or an
10.6.10.2.2 Storage batteries shall be located so that the equip-                 emergency communications system shall comply with
ment, including overcurrent devices, is not adversely affected                    NFPA 110 Chapter 4, requirements for a Type 10, Class 24,
by battery gases.                                                                 Level 1 system.

10.6.10.2.3 Batteries shall be insulated against ground faults.                   10.6.11.3.1.2 Installation of engine-driven generators used to
10.6.10.2.4 Batteries shall be insulated to prevent short                         provide secondary power for a protected premises fire alarm
circuits between multiple cells.                                                  system or an emergency communications system shall be in
                                                                                  accordance with NFPA 70, Article 700.

2019 Edition            Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                  FUNDAMENTALS                                                      72-77

10.6.11.3.1.3 Where survivability of circuits is required by                         10.7.3* Emergency mass notification signals and messages
another section of the Code, equal protection shall be provi-                        shall be permitted to have priority over fire alarm notification
ded for power supply circuits.                                                       signals in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 24.

10.6.11.3.2 Supervising Station.                                                     10.7.4 Emergency mass notification signals and messages shall
10.6.11.3.2.1 Automatic-starting, engine-driven generators                           have priority over supervisory and trouble signals in accord-
used to provide secondary power for a supervising station shall                      ance with the requirements of Chapter 24.
comply with NFPA 110 Chapter 4, requirements for a Type 60,                          10.7.5 Carbon monoxide signals shall be permitted to take
Class 24, Level 2 system.                                                            precedence over supervisory and trouble signals.

10.6.11.3.2.2 Installation of automatic-starting, engine-driven                      10.7.6 Pre-alarm signals shall take precedence over supervi-
generators used to provide secondary power for a supervising                         sory and trouble signals.
   station shall be in accordance with NFPA 70 Article 701.
   10.6.11.3.2.3 Manual-starting, engine-driven generators used                      10.7.7 Supervisory signals shall take precedence over trouble
   to provide secondary power for a supervising station shall                        signals.
                                                                                     10.7.8 Hold-up alarms or other life-threatening signals shall
Y comply with NFPA 110 Chapter 10, requirements for a Type M,                        be permitted to take precedence over supervisory and trouble
L Class 24, Level 2 system.                                                          signals where acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                                     10.7.9* Where separate systems are installed, they shall be
   10.6.11.3.2.4 Installation of manual-starting, engine-driven                      permitted to achieve the priority of signals in accordance with
                                                                                     Section 10.7.
N generators used to provide secondary power for a supervising                       10.8 Detection and Signaling of Conditions.
                                                                                     10.8.1 Abnormal Condition Detection. Where required by
   station shall be in accordance with NFPA 70, Article 702.                         this Code, the system shall be provided with means to detect
                                                                                     and signal abnormal conditions.
O 10.6.11.4 Performance, Operation, Testing, and Maintenance.                        10.8.2 Alarm Condition Detection. Where required by this
                                                                                     Code, the system shall be provided with means to detect and
   The requirements for performance, operation, testing, and                         signal alarm conditions.
                                                                                     10.8.2.1 Pre-Alarm Condition Detection. Where required by
E maintenance of engine-driven generators shall conform to the                       this Code, the system shall be provided with means to detect
                                                                                     and signal pre-alarm conditions.
   applicable provisions of NFPA 110.                                                10.8.2.2 Supervisory Condition Detection. Where required by
                                                                                     this Code, the system shall be provided with means to detect
S 10.6.11.5 Capacity. The unit shall be of a capacity that is suffi-                 and signal supervisory conditions.
U cient to operate the system under the maximum normal load                          10.8.2.3 Trouble Condition Detection. Where required by this
                                                                                     Code, the system shall be provided with means to detect and
   conditions in addition to all other demands placed upon the                       signal trouble conditions.
                                                                                     10.8.2.4 Normal Condition Detection. Where required by this
L unit.                                                                              Code, the system shall generate a restoration signal when the
                                                                                     device or signaling system returns to normal.
   10.6.11.6 Fuel. Unless otherwise required or permitted in                         10.9 Responses.
                                                                                     10.9.1 Alarm. The response to an alarm signal shall be in
A 10.6.11.6.1 through 10.6.11.6.3, fuel shall be available in stor-                  accordance with this Code.
                                                                                     10.9.2 Pre-Alarm. The response to a pre-alarm signal shall be
   age sufficient for 6 months of testing plus the capacity specified

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U in 10.6.7.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 10.6.11.6.1 For public emergency alarm reporting systems, the

   requirements of Chapter 27 shall apply.

IV 10.6.11.6.2 If a reliable source of supply is available at any

   time on a 2-hour notice, it shall be permitted to have fuel in
   storage sufficient for 12 hours of operation at full load.

D 10.6.11.6.3 Fuel systems using natural or manufactured gas
IN supplied through reliable utility mains shall not be required to

   have fuel storage tanks unless located in seismic risk zone 3 or
   greater as defined in ANSI A-58.1, Building Code Requirements for
   Minimum Design Loads in Buildings and Other Structures.

R 10.6.11.7 Battery and Charger.
O N 10.6.11.7.1 A separate storage battery and separate automatic
Fcharger shall be provided for starting the engine-driven genera-
tor and shall not be used for any other purpose.                                     in accordance with this Code.

N 10.6.11.7.2 The battery shall be sized in accordance with 5.6.4                    10.9.3 Supervisory. The response to a supervisory signal shall
   of NFPA 110.                                                                      be in accordance with this Code.
   10.7 Signal Priority. The priority of signals shall be in accord-                 10.9.4 Trouble. The response to trouble signal shall be in
   ance with this section.                                                           accordance with this Code.
   10.7.1 ECS priority signals when evaluated by stakeholders                        10.10 Distinctive Signals.
   through a risk analysis in accordance with 24.3.12 shall be                       10.10.1 Priority alarm signals, fire alarm signals, carbon
   permitted to take precedence over all other signals.                              monoxide alarm signals, supervisory signals, pre-alarm signals,
   10.7.2 Fire alarm signals shall take precedence over all other                    and trouble signals shall be distinctively and descriptively
   signals, except as permitted by 10.7.1 or 10.7.3.                                 annunciated.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-78                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

10.10.2 Audible alarm notification appliances for a fire alarm                                   10.11.8 An alarm signal that has been deactivated at the
system shall produce signals that are distinctive from other                                     protected premises shall comply with 10.11.8.1 and 10.11.8.2.
similar appliances used for other purposes in the same area
that are not part of the fire alarm or emergency communica-                                      10.11.8.1 The audible and visible alarm signal at the control
tions system.                                                                                    unit only shall automatically reactivate every 24 hours or less
                                                                                                 until alarm signal conditions are restored to normal.
10.10.3 Audible alarm notification appliances for a carbon
monoxide alarm system shall produce signals that are distinc-                                    10.11.8.2 The audible and visible alarm signal shall operate
tive from other similar appliances used for other purposes in                                    until it is manually silenced or acknowledged.

the same area that are not part of the carbon monoxide, fire                                     10.12* Fire Alarm Notification Appliance Deactivation.
alarm, or emergency communications system.
                                                                                                 10.12.1 A means for turning off activated alarm notification
10.10.4* An audible notification appliance on a control unit,                                    appliance(s) shall be permitted.
   on multiple control units that are interconnected to form a
   system, or at a remote location, shall be permitted to have the                                  10.12.2* When an occupant notification alarm signal deactiva-
   same audible characteristics for all alerting functions including,                               tion means is actuated, both audible and visual notification
                                                                                                    appliances shall be simultaneously deactivated.
Y but not limited to, alarm, trouble, and supervisory, provided                                     10.12.3 The fire alarm notification deactivation means shall
                                                                                                    be key-operated or located within a locked cabinet, or arranged
   that the distinction between signals shall be by other means.                                    to provide equivalent protection against unauthorized use.
                                                                                                    10.12.4 The means shall comply with the requirements of
L 10.10.5* Supervisory signals shall be distinctive in sound from                                   10.18.1.
N other signals, and their sound shall not be used for any other                                    10.12.5 Subsequent Activation of Initiating Devices.
                                                                                                    10.12.5.1 Subsequent activation of nonaddressable initiating
   purpose except as permitted in 10.10.4.                                                          devices on other initiating device circuits shall cause the notifi-
                                                                                                    cation appliances to reactivate.
O 10.10.6 Trouble signals required to indicate at the protected                                     10.12.5.2 Subsequent activation of addressable alarm initiat-
                                                                                                    ing devices of a different type in the same room or addressable
   premises shall be indicated by distinctive audible signals, which                                alarm initiating devices in a different room on signaling line
                                                                                                    circuits shall cause the notification appliances to reactivate.
E shall be distinctive from alarm signals except as permitted in                                    10.12.6 A fire alarm notification deactivation means that
                                                                                                    remains in the deactivated position when there is no alarm
   10.10.4.                                                                                         condition shall operate an audible trouble notification appli-
                                                                                                    ance until the means is restored to normal.
S 10.10.7 Alarm evacuation signals shall be distinctive in sound                                 N 10.13 Carbon Monoxide (CO) Notification Appliance Deacti-
U from other signals, shall comply with the requirements of                                         vation. A CO initiating device with an integral sounder shall
                                                                                                    be permitted to be silenced locally if the CO alarm or supervi-
   18.4.2, and their sound shall not be used for any other                                          sory status continues to be displayed at the control unit.
   purpose.                                                                                         10.14 Supervisory Signals.
                                                                                                    10.14.1 Self-Restoring Supervisory Signal Indication. Visible
L 10.10.8 Pre-alarm signals shall be distinctive in sound from                                      and audible indication of self-restoring supervisory signals and
A other signals, and their sound shall not be used for any other                                    visible indication of their restoration to normal shall be auto-
                                                                                                    matically indicated within 90 seconds at the following locations:
   purpose except as permitted in 10.10.4.                                                          (1) Fire alarm control unit for local fire alarm systems
                                                                                                    (2) Building fire command center for in-building fire emer-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 10.10.9 Carbon monoxide alarm signals shall comply with
ID 18.4.4.2.                                                                                               gency voice/alarm communications systems

   10.11 Alarm Signals.

IV 10.11.1* Actuation of alarm notification appliances or emer-

   gency voice communications, emergency control function

D interface devices, and annunciation at the protected premises

   shall occur within 10 seconds after the activation of an initiat-

IN ing device.

   10.11.2* Visual notification appliances, textual visual notifica-
   tion appliances, and loudspeaker notification appliances loca-

R ted in the same area shall be activated and deactivated as a

   group unless otherwise required by an ECS emergency

O response plan. (SIG-ECS)
F 10.11.3 Visual alarm notification appliances shall not be acti-
vated when loudspeaker notification appliances are used as                                       (3) Supervising station location for systems installed in
permitted by 24.3.5 for non-emergency paging. (SIG-ECS)
                                                                                                 compliance with Chapter 26

10.11.4* A coded alarm signal shall consist of not less than                                     10.14.2 Latching Supervisory Signal Indication.
three complete rounds of the number transmitted.                                                 10.14.2.1 Visible and audible indication of latching supervi-
10.11.5 Each round of a coded alarm signal shall consist of                                      sory signals shall be indicated within 90 seconds at the loca-
not less than three impulses.                                                                    tions specified in 10.14.1.

10.11.6* Resetting of alarm signals shall comply with 23.8.2.2.                                  10.14.2.2 Restoration of latching supervisory signals shall be
10.11.7 The subsequent occurrence of a fault on an initiating                                    indicated within 90 seconds at the locations specified in
device circuit or a signaling line circuit used for other than the                               10.14.1.
interconnection of control units shall not affect previously
transmitted unacknowledged alarm signals.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                     FUNDAMENTALS                                                                   72-79

10.14.3 Coded Supervisory Signal.                                  10.15.5 The audible trouble notification appliances shall be
                                                                                    located in an area where they are to be heard.
10.14.3.1 A coded supervisory signal shall be permitted to
consist of two rounds of the number transmitted to indicate a                       10.15.6 Activated notification appliances at the protected
supervisory off-normal condition.                                                   premises shall continue to operate unless they are manually
                                                                                    silenced as permitted by 10.15.10.1.
10.14.3.2 A coded supervisory signal shall be permitted to
consist of one round of the number transmitted to indicate the                      10.15.7 Visible and audible trouble signals and visible indica-
restoration of the supervisory condition to normal.                                 tion of their restoration to normal shall be indicated at the
                                                                                    following locations:
10.14.4 Combined Coded Alarm and Supervisory Signal
Circuits. Where both coded sprinkler supervisory signals and                        (1) Fire alarm control unit for protected premises alarm
                                                                                    systems
coded fire or waterflow alarm signals are transmitted over the                      (2) Building fire command center for in-building fire emer-
   same signaling line circuit, provision shall be made to obtain                          gency voice/alarm communications systems
   either alarm signal precedence or sufficient repetition of the
   alarm signal to prevent the loss of an alarm signal.                             (3) Central station or remote station location for systems
                                                                                           installed in compliance with Chapter 26
Y  10.14.5 Supervisory Notification Appliance Location. The
L audible supervisory notification appliances shall be located in                   10.15.8 Trouble signals and their restoration to normal shall
                                                                                    be visibly and audibly indicated at the proprietary supervising
   an area where they are to be heard.                                              station for systems installed in compliance with Chapter 26.
                                                                                    10.15.9* A trouble signal that has been deactivated at the
N 10.14.6 Supervisory Signal Reactivation. A supervisory signal                     protected premises shall comply with 10.15.9.1 and 10.15.9.2.
                                                                                    10.15.9.1 The audible and visible trouble signal shall automat-
   that has been deactivated at the protected premises shall                        ically reactivate at the control unit every 24 hours or less until
                                                                                    trouble signal conditions are restored to normal.
O comply with 10.14.6.1 and 10.14.6.2.                                              10.15.9.2 The audible and visible trouble signal associated
                                                                                    with signaling the depletion or failure of the primary battery of
   10.14.6.1 The audible and visible supervisory signal at the                      a wireless system as required by 23.16.2(3) and (4) shall auto-
                                                                                    matically resound every 4 hours or less until the depletion
E control unit only shall automatically reactivate every 24 hours                   signal is restored to normal.
                                                                                    10.15.10 Trouble Notification Appliance Deactivation.
   or less until supervisory signal conditions are restored to                      10.15.10.1 A means for deactivating trouble notification appli-
                                                                                    ances shall be permitted.
S normal.                                                                           10.15.10.2 The means shall be key-operated or located within
U 10.14.6.2 The audible and visible supervisory signal shall oper-                  a locked cabinet, or arranged to provide equivalent protection
                                                                                    against unauthorized use.
   ate until it is manually silenced or acknowledged.                               10.15.10.3 The means for deactivating trouble notification
                                                                                    appliances shall comply with the requirements of 10.18.2.
L 10.14.7 Supervisory Notification Appliance Deactivation.                          10.15.10.4 If an audible trouble notification appliance is also
A 10.14.7.1 A means for deactivating supervisory notification                       used to indicate a supervisory condition, as permitted by
                                                                                    10.10.4, a trouble notification appliance deactivation means
   appliances shall be permitted.                                                   shall not prevent subsequent actuation of supervisory notifica-
                                                                                    tion appliances.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 10.14.7.2 The means shall be key-operated or located within a   10.15.10.5 Subsequent trouble signals shall cause trouble noti-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} locked cabinet, or arranged to provide equivalent protectionfication appliances to activate as required by the system input/
                                                                                    output matrix.
   against unauthorized use.

IV 10.14.7.3 The means for deactivating supervisory notification

   appliances shall comply with the requirements of 10.18.2.
   10.14.7.4 Subsequent activation of supervisory initiating devi-

D ces in other building zones shall cause supervisory notification

   appliances to activate as required by the system input/output

IN matrix.

   10.14.7.5 A means for deactivating supervisory notification
   appliances that remains in the deactivated position when there

R is no supervisory condition shall operate an audible trouble

   notification appliance until the means is restored to normal.

FO10.15 Trouble Signals.
10.15.1 Trouble signals and their restoration to normal shall                       10.15.10.6 A means for deactivating trouble notification appli-
be indicated within 200 seconds at the locations identified in                      ances that remains in the deactivated position when there is no
10.15.7 and 10.15.8.                                                                trouble condition shall operate an audible trouble notification
10.15.2 Indication of primary power failure trouble signals                         appliance until the means is restored to normal.
transmitted to a supervising station shall be in accordance with                    10.15.10.7* Unless otherwise permitted by the authority
10.6.9.3.                                                                           having jurisdiction, trouble notification appliances at the
10.15.3 An audible trouble signal shall be permitted to be                          protected premises of a supervising station fire alarm system
intermittent provided it sounds at least once every 10 seconds,                     arranged in accordance with Chapter 26, that have been
with a minimum duration of 12 second.                                               silenced at the protected premises shall automatically reactivate
10.15.4 A single audible trouble signal shall be permitted to                       every 24 hours or less until fault conditions are restored to
annunciate multiple fault conditions.                                               normal.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-80                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

10.16 Emergency Control Function Status Indicators.                 10.18.3.2 All required annunciation means shall be located as
10.16.1 All controls provided specifically for the purpose of       required by the authority having jurisdiction to facilitate an
manually overriding any automatic emergency control function        efficient response to the situation.
shall provide visible indication of the status of the associated    10.18.4 Alarm Annunciation Display. Visible annunciators
control circuits.                                                   shall be capable of displaying all zones in alarm.

10.16.2* Where status indicators are provided for emergency         10.18.4.1 If all zones in alarm are not displayed simultane-
equipment or control functions, they shall be arranged to           ously, the zone of origin shall be displayed.
reflect the actual status of the associated equipment or func-      10.18.4.2 If all zones in alarm are not displayed simultane-
tion.                                                               ously, there shall be an indication that other zones are in
10.17 Notification Appliance Circuits and Control Circuits.         alarm.

   10.17.1 An open, ground-fault, or short-circuit fault on the     10.18.5* Annunciation Zoning.
   installation conductors of one alarm notification appliance      10.18.5.1 For the purpose of alarm annunciation, each floor
   circuit shall not affect the operation of any other alarm notifi-of the building shall be considered as a separate zone.
                                                                    10.18.5.2 For the purposes of alarm annunciation, if a floor of
Y cation appliance circuit for more than 200 seconds regardless     the building is subdivided into multiple zones by fire or smoke
L of whether the short-circuit fault is present during the normal   barriers and the fire plan for the protected premises allows
                                                                    relocation of occupants from the zone of origin to another
   or activated circuit state.                                      zone on the same floor, each zone on the floor shall be annun-
                                                                    ciated separately.
N 10.17.2* Notification appliance circuits that do not have noti-   10.18.5.3 Where the system serves more than one building,
                                                                    each building shall be annunciated separately.
   fication appliances connected directly to the circuit shall be   10.19 Monitoring Integrity of In-Building Fire Emergency
                                                                    Voice/Alarm Communications Systems.
O considered control circuits.                                      10.19.1* Audio Amplifier and Tone-Generating Equipment. If
                                                                    loudspeakers are used to produce audible fire alarm signals,
 10.17.3 Control circuits used for the purpose of controlling       the required trouble signal for 10.19.1.1 through 10.19.1.3
                                                                    shall be in accordance with Section 10.15.
E NAC extender panels shall comply with all of the following:       10.19.1.1 When primary power is available, failure of any
S (1) The NAC extender panel(s) connected to the control            audio amplifier shall result in a trouble signal.
                                                                    10.19.1.2 When an alarm is present and primary power is not
           circuit shall not serve more than one notification zone  available (i.e., system is operating from the secondary power
                                                                    source), failure of any audio amplifier shall result in a trouble
  U .                                                               signal.
                                                                    10.19.1.3 Failure of any tone-generating equipment shall
   (2) The control circuit shall be monitored for integrity in      result in a trouble signal, unless the tone-generating and ampli-
           accordance with Section 12.6.                            fying equipment are enclosed as integral parts and serve only a
                                                                    single, listed loudspeaker.
L (3) A fault in the control circuit installation conductors shall  10.19.2 Two-Way Telephone Communications Circuits.
  A result in a trouble signal in accordance with                   10.19.2.1 Two-way telephone communications circuit installa-
                                                                    tion conductors shall be monitored for open circuit fault
           Section 10.15.                                           conditions that would cause the telephone communications
                                                                    circuit to become fully or partially inoperative.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 10.18 Annunciation and Annunciation Zoning.     10.19.2.2 Two-way telephone communications circuit installa-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 10.18.1 Alarm Annunciation.                 tion conductors shall be monitored for short circuit fault

   10.18.1.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or

IV standards, the location of an operated initiating device shall be

   annunciated by visible means.

D 10.18.1.1.1 Visible annunciation of the location of an oper-

   ated initiating device shall be by an indicator lamp, alphanu-

IN meric display, printout, or other approved means.

   10.18.1.1.2 The visible annunciation of the location of oper-
   ated initiating devices shall not be canceled by the means used

R to deactivate alarm notification appliances.

   10.18.2 Supervisory and Trouble Annunciation.

O 10.18.2.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or
Fstandards, supervisory and/or trouble conditions shall be

   annunciated by visible means.

10.18.2.1.1 Visible annunciation shall be by an indicator lamp,     conditions that would cause the telephone communications
an alphanumeric display, a printout, or other means.
                                                                    circuit to become fully or partially inoperative.

10.18.2.1.2 The visible annunciation of supervisory and/or          10.19.2.3 Two-way telephone communications circuit fault
trouble conditions shall not be canceled by the means used to       conditions shall result in a trouble signal in accordance with
deactivate supervisory or trouble notification appliances.          Section 10.15.

10.18.3* Annunciator Access and Location.                           10.20 Documentation and Notification.

10.18.3.1 All required annunciation means shall be readily          10.20.1 Documentation shall be in accordance with Chap-
accessible to responding personnel.                                 ter 7.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 CIRCUITS AND PATHWAYS                                           72-81

10.20.2 The authority having jurisdiction shall be notified        12.2.3.2* Fire alarm system wiring and equipment, including
prior to installation or alteration of equipment or wiring.        all circuits controlled and powered by the fire alarm system,
10.21* Impairments.                                                shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of this
                                                                   Code and of NFPA 70 Article 760.

10.21.1 The system owner or the owner's designated represen-       12.2.3.3* Wiring methods permitted by other sections of this
tative shall be notified when a system or part thereof is          Code to resist attack by fire shall be installed in accordance
impaired. Impairments to systems shall include out-of-service      with manufacturer's published instructions and the require-
events.                                                            ments of NFPA 70 Article 760 and Article 728.

10.21.2 A record of the impairments shall be maintained by         12.2.3.4* Where operational capability is required to be main-
the system owner or the owner's designated representative for a    tained or continued during the application of a fault, the
period of 1 year from the date the impairment is corrected.        operational capability required in 10.11.1 shall be restored

   10.21.3 The supervising station shall report to the authority      within 200 seconds from the time the fault is introduced.
   having jurisdiction any system for which required monitoring       12.2.4 Ground Connections.
   has been terminated.                                               12.2.4.1 Unless otherwise permitted by 12.2.4.2, all fire alarm
                                                                      systems shall test free of grounds.
Y 10.21.4* The service provider shall report to the authority      N 12.2.4.2 The requirements of 12.2.4.1 shall not be required
L having jurisdiction any system that is out of service for more      where parts of circuits or equipment are intentionally and
                                                                      permanently grounded in order to provide ground fault detec-
   than 8 hours.                                                      tion, noise suppression, emergency ground signals, and circuit
                                                                      protection grounding.
N 10.21.5* Where required by the authority having jurisdiction,       12.2.4.3* On conductive pathways, operational capability shall
O mitigating measures shall be implemented for the period that        be maintained during the application of a single ground
                                                                      connection.
   the system is impaired.                                            12.3* Pathway Class Designations. Pathways shall be designa-
                                                                      ted as Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, Class E, Class N, or
E 10.21.6 The system owner or the owner's designated represen-        Class X, depending on their performance.
                                                                      12.3.1* Class A. A pathway shall be designated as Class A
   tative and the authority having jurisdiction shall be notified     when it performs as follows:
                                                                      (1) It includes a redundant path.
S when an impairment period ends.                                     (2) Operational capability continues past a single open, and

   10.22* Unwanted Alarms. For the purpose of reporting,                     the single open fault results in the annunciation of a trou-
                                                                             ble signal.
U alarm signals that are not the result of hazardous conditions       (3) Conditions that affect the intended operation of the path
                                                                             are annunciated as a trouble signal.
   shall be classified as Unwanted and subclassified as one of the    (4) Operational capability on metallic conductors is main-
                                                                             tained during the application of a single ground fault.
L following:                                                          (5) A single ground condition on metallic conductors results
A (1) Malicious alarm                                                        in the annunciation of a trouble signal.
                                                                      12.3.2 Class B. A pathway shall be designated as Class B when
   (2) Nuisance alarm                                                 it performs as follows:
                                                                      (1) It does not include a redundant path.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (3) Unintentional alarm                           (2) Operational capability stops at a single open.
                                                                      (3) Conditions that affect the intended operation of the path
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (4) Unknown alarm                                      are annunciated as a trouble signal.
                                                                      (4) Operational capability on metallic conductors is main-
     ID Chapter 11 Reserved
    IV Chapter 12 Circuits and Pathways
D 12.1 Application.
IN 12.1.1 Pathways (interconnections) shall be designated based

   on the performance characteristics defined in this chapter.

R 12.1.2 The requirements of Chapter 14 shall apply.

   12.2 General.

O12.2.1* Performance and survivability characteristics of signal-
Fing pathways (interconnections) shall comply with the defined
designations of this chapter.                                      tained during the application of a single ground fault.
                                                                   (5) A single ground condition on metallic conductors results
12.2.2 A pathway (interconnection) class designation shall be             in the annunciation of a trouble signal.
dependent on the pathway (interconnection) capability to
continue to operate during abnormal conditions.                    12.3.3* Class C. A pathway shall be designated as Class C
                                                                   when it performs as follows:
12.2.3 The installation of all pathway wiring, cable, and equip-
ment shall be in accordance with NFPA 70 and the applicable        (1) It includes one or more pathways where operational capa-
                                                                   bility is verified via end-to-end communication, but the
requirements of 12.2.3.1 through 12.2.3.3.                         integrity of individual paths is not monitored.

12.2.3.1 Optical fiber cables installed as part of the fire alarm  (2) A loss of end-to-end communication is annunciated as a
system shall meet the requirements of NFPA 70 Article 770, and            trouble signal.
be protected against physical damage in accordance with
NFPA 70 Article 760.                                               12.3.4* Class D. A pathway shall be designated as Class D
                                                                   when it has fail-safe operation, where no fault is annunciated,

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-82                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

but the intended operation is performed in the event of a path-                  12.4* Pathway Survivability. All pathways shall comply with
way failure.                                                                     NFPA 70.

12.3.5* Class E. A pathway shall be designated as Class E                        12.4.1 Pathway Survivability Level 0. Level 0 pathways shall
when it is not monitored for integrity.                                          not be required to have any provisions for pathway survivability.

12.3.6 Class N. A pathway shall be designated as Class N when                    12.4.2 Pathway Survivability Level 1. Pathway survivability
it performs as follows:                                                          Level 1 shall consist of pathways in buildings that are fully
(1)* It includes two or more pathways where operational capa-                    protected by an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
                                                                                 NFPA 13 with any interconnecting conductors, cables, or other
       bility of the primary pathway and a redundant pathway to                  physical pathways protected by metal raceways or metal
       each device shall be verified through end-to-end commu-                   armored cables.
       nication.

           Exception: When only one device is served, only one pathway           12.4.3* Pathway Survivability Level 2. Pathway survivability
           shall be required.                                                    Level 2 shall consist of one or more of the following:
   (2) A loss of intended communications between endpoints                       (1) 2-hour fire-rated circuit integrity (CI) or fire-resistive

  Y shall be annunciated as a trouble signal.                                           cable
                                                                                 (2) 2-hour fire-rated cable system [electrical circuit protective
   (3) A single open, ground, short, or combination of faults on
                                                                                        system(s)]
  L one pathway shall not affect any other pathway.                              (3) 2-hour fire-rated enclosure or protected area
                                                                                 (4)* Performance alternatives approved by the authority
   (4)* Conditions that affect the operation of the primary path-
                                                                                        having jurisdiction
  N way(s) and redundant pathway(s) shall be annunciated as                      12.4.4* Pathway Survivability Level 3. Pathway survivability
                                                                                 Level 3 shall consist of pathways in buildings that are fully
           a trouble signal when the system's minimal operational                protected by an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
                                                                                 NFPA 13 and one or more of the following:
  O requirements cannot be met.                                                  (1) 2-hour fire-rated circuit integrity (CI) or fire-resistive

   (5)* Primary and redundant pathways shall not be permitted                           cable
                                                                                 (2) 2-hour fire-rated cable system [electrical circuit protective
  E to share traffic over the same physical segment.
                                                                                        system(s)]
   12.3.7 Class X. A pathway shall be designated as Class X when                 (3) 2-hour fire-rated enclosure or protected area
                                                                                 (4)* Performance alternatives approved by the authority
S it performs as follows:
U (1) It includes a redundant path.                                                     having jurisdiction
                                                                                 12.5* Shared Pathway Designations. Shared pathways shall be
   (2) Operational capability continues past a single open, and                  designated as Level 0, Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3, depending
                                                                                 on their performance.
  L the single open fault results in the annunciation of a trou-                 12.5.1* Shared Pathway Level 0. Level 0 pathways shall not be
                                                                                 required to segregate or prioritize life safety data from non­life
           ble signal.                                                           safety data.
                                                                                 12.5.2* Shared Pathway Level 1. Level 1 pathways shall not be
A (3) Operational capability on metallic conductors continues                    required to segregate life safety data from non­life safety data,
           past a single short-circuit, and the single short-circuit fault       but shall prioritize all life safety data over non­life safety data.
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U results in the annunciation of a trouble signal.            12.5.3* Shared Pathway Level 2. Level 2 pathways shall segre-
                                                                                 gate all life safety data from non­life safety data.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (4) Operational capability on metallic conductors continues12.5.4* Shared Pathway Level 3. Level 3 pathways shall use
                                                                                 equipment that is dedicated to the life safety system.
  ID past a combination open fault and ground fault.                             12.6* Monitoring Integrity and Circuit Performance of Instal-
                                                                                 lation Conductors and Other Signaling Channels.
   (5) Conditions that affect the intended operation of the path
           are annunciated as a trouble signal.

IV (6) Operational capability on metallic conductors is main-
           tained during the application of a single ground fault.
   (7) A single ground condition on metallic conductors results

  D in the annunciation of a trouble signal.
IN  12.3.8* Class A, Class N, and Class X Pathway Separation.

   Class A, Class N, and Class X circuits using physical conductors
   (e.g., metallic, optical fiber) shall be installed so that the
   primary and redundant, or outgoing and return, conductors

R exiting from and returning to the control unit, respectively, are

   routed separately.

O 12.3.8.1 The outgoing and return (redundant) circuit
Fconductors shall be permitted in the same cable assembly (i.e.,

   multiconductor cable), enclosure, or raceway only under the
following conditions:                                                            12.6.1 Unless otherwise permitted or required by 12.3.1
                                                                                 through 12.3.7 and 12.6.3 through 12.6.13, all means of inter-
(1) For a distance not to exceed 10 ft (3.0 m) where the                         connecting equipment, devices, and appliances and wiring
       outgoing and return conductors enter or exit the initiat-                 connections shall be monitored for the integrity of the inter-
       ing device, notification appliance, or control unit enclo-                connecting conductors or equivalent path so that the occur-
       sures                                                                     rence of a single open or a single ground-fault condition in the
                                                                                 installation conductors or other signaling channels is automati-
(2) Single drops installed in the raceway to individual devices                  cally indicated within 200 seconds.
       or appliances

(3)* In a single room not exceeding 1000 ft2 (93 m2) in area, a
       drop installed in the raceway to multiple devices or appli-
       ances that does not include any emergency control func-                   12.6.2 Unless otherwise permitted or required by 12.3.1
       tion devices                                                              through 12.3.7 and 12.6.3 through 12.6.13, all means of inter-
                                                                                 connecting equipment, devices, and appliances and wiring
                                                                                 connections shall be monitored for the integrity of the inter-

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                      72-83

connecting conductors or equivalent path so that the restora-                   12.6.14 Interconnection means shall be arranged so that a
tion to normal of a single open or a single ground-fault                        single break or single ground-fault does not cause an alarm
condition in the installation conductors or other signaling                     signal.
channels is automatically indicated within 200 seconds.                         12.6.15 A wire-to-wire short-circuit fault on any alarm notifica-
12.6.3 Shorts between conductors shall not be required to be                    tion appliance circuit shall result in a trouble signal in accord-
monitored for integrity, unless required by 12.6.15, 12.6.16,                   ance with Section 10.15, except as permitted by 12.6.5, 12.6.6,
and 10.19.2.                                                                    or 12.6.11.

12.6.4 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for a                     12.6.16 Where two or more systems are interconnected, the
noninterfering shunt circuit, provided that a fault circuit                     systems shall be connected using Class A, B, N, or X circuits as
condition on the shunt circuit wiring results only in the loss of               described in Section 12.3.
   the noninterfering feature of operation.
   12.6.5 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for                       12.7* Nomenclature. The following nomenclature shall be
   connections to and between supplementary system compo-                          used to identify the required properties of the system(s) inter-
   nents, provided that a single open, ground-fault, or short-                     connections and survivability:
                                                                                   (1) System(s) interconnections
Y circuit conditions of the supplementary equipment or                             (2) Survivability levels (not required if Level 0)
L interconnecting means, or both, do not affect the required                       (3) Shared pathway levels (not required if Level 0)

   operation of the fire alarm and/or signaling system.                                                       Chapter 13 Reserved

N 12.6.6 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for the                             Chapter 14 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance

   circuit of an alarm notification appliance installed in the same                14.1 Application.
                                                                                   14.1.1 The inspection, testing, and maintenance of systems,
O room with the central control equipment, provided that the                       their initiating devices, and notification appliances shall
                                                                                   comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   notification appliance circuit conductors are installed in                    14.1.2 The inspection, testing, and maintenance of single- and
                                                                                   multiple-station alarms and household alarm systems shall
E conduit or are equivalently protected against mechanical                         comply with 14.4.5 and 14.4.6. (SIG-HOU)
                                                                                   14.1.3 Procedures that are required by other parties and that
   injury.                                                                         exceed the requirements of this chapter shall be permitted.
                                                                                   14.1.4 The requirements of this chapter shall apply to both
S 12.6.7 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for a                      new and existing systems.
U trouble notification appliance circuit.                                          14.1.5 The requirements of Chapter 7 shall apply where refer-
                                                                                   enced in Chapter 14.
   12.6.8* Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for the                  14.2 General.
                                                                                   14.2.1 Purpose.
L interconnection between listed equipment within a common                         14.2.1.1* The purpose for initial and reacceptance inspec-
                                                                                   tions shall be to ensure compliance with approved design docu-
   enclosure.                                                                      ments and to ensure installation in accordance with this Code
                                                                                   and other required installation standards.
A 12.6.9 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for the                    14.2.1.2* The purpose for initial and reacceptance tests of fire
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U interconnection between enclosures containing control equip-   alarm and signaling systems shall be to ensure system operation

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ment located within 20 ft (6 m) of each other where the

ID conductors are installed in conduit or equivalently protected

   against mechanical injury.

IV 12.6.10 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for the

   conductors for ground-fault detection where a single ground-
   fault does not prevent the required normal operation of the

D system.
IN 12.6.11 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for

   pneumatic rate-of-rise systems of the continuous line type in
   which the wiring terminals of such devices are connected in
   multiple across electrically supervised circuits.

R 12.6.12 Monitoring for integrity shall not be required for the
Ointerconnecting wiring of a stationary computer and the

   computer's keyboard, video monitor, mouse-type device, or

Ftouch screen, as long as the interconnecting wiring does not
exceed 8 ft (2.4 m) in length; is a listed computer/data                        in accordance with the design documents.
processing cable as permitted by NFPA 70; and failure of cable
does not cause the failure of the required system functions not                 14.2.1.3* The purpose for periodic inspections shall be to
initiated from the keyboard, mouse, or touch screen.                            assure that obvious damages or changes that might affect the
12.6.13 Monitoring for integrity of the installation conductors                 system operability are visually identified.

for a ground-fault condition shall not be required for the                      14.2.1.4* The purpose for periodic testing shall be to statisti-
communications and transmission channels extending from a                       cally assure operational reliability.

supervising station to a subsidiary station(s) or protected prem-               14.2.2 Performance.
ises, or both, that comply with the requirements of Chapter 26
and are electrically isolated from the fire alarm system (or                    14.2.2.1 Performance Verification. To ensure operational
circuits) by a transmitter(s).                                                  integrity, the system shall have an inspection, testing, and main-
                                                                                tenance program.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-84                                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

14.2.2.1.1 Inspection, testing, and maintenance programs                         required by Chapter 7 regarding the system and system altera-
shall satisfy the requirements of this Code and conform to the                   tions, including specifications, wiring diagrams, and floor
equipment manufacturer's published instructions.                                 plans, shall be provided by the owner or a designated represen-
                                                                                 tative to the service personnel upon request.
14.2.2.1.2* Inspection, testing, and maintenance programs
shall verify correct operation of the system.                                    14.2.5.1 The provided documentation shall include the
                                                                                 current revisions of all fire alarm software and the revisions of
14.2.2.2 Impairments/Deficiencies.                                               software of any systems with which the fire alarm software inter-

14.2.2.2.1 The requirements of Section 10.21 shall be applica-                   faces.

ble when a system is impaired.                                                   14.2.5.2 The revisions of fire alarm software, and the revisions

14.2.2.2.2 System deficiencies shall be corrected.                               of the software in the systems with which the fire alarm software
                                                                                 interfaces, shall be verified for compatibility in accordance with
14.2.2.2.3 If a deficiency is not corrected at the conclusion of                 the requirements of 23.2.2.1.1.
system inspection, testing, or maintenance, the system owner or                  14.2.6 Releasing Systems. Requirements pertinent to testing
the owner's designated representative shall be informed of the                   the fire alarm systems initiating fire suppression system releas-
                                                                                 ing functions shall be covered by 14.2.6.1 through 14.2.6.6.
Y deficiency in writing within 24 hours.                                         14.2.6.1 Testing personnel shall be qualified and experienced
L 14.2.2.2.4 In the event that any equipment is observed to be                   in the specific arrangement and operation of a suppression
                                                                                 system(s) and a releasing function(s) and shall be cognizant of
part of a recall program, the system owner or the system                         the hazards associated with inadvertent system discharge.
                                                                                 14.2.6.2 Occupant notification shall be required whenever a
N owner's designated representative shall be notified in writing.                fire alarm system configured for releasing service is being serv-
                                                                                 iced or tested.
14.2.3 Responsibilities.                                                         14.2.6.3 Discharge testing of suppression systems shall not be
                                                                                 required by this Code.
O 14.2.3.1* The property or building or system owner or the                      14.2.6.4 Suppression systems shall be secured from inadver-
                                                                                 tent actuation, including disconnection of releasing solenoids
owner's designated representative shall be responsible for                       or electric actuators, closing of valves, other actions, or combi-
                                                                                 nations thereof, for the specific system, for the duration of the
E inspection, testing, and maintenance of the system and for                     fire alarm system testing.
                                                                                 14.2.6.5 Testing shall include verification that the releasing
alterations or additions to this system.                                         circuits and components energized or actuated by the fire
                                                                                 alarm system are electrically monitored for integrity and oper-
S 14.2.3.2 Where the property owner is not the occupant, the                     ate as intended on alarm.
U property owner shall be permitted to delegate the authority                    14.2.6.6 Suppression systems and releasing components shall
                                                                                 be returned to their functional operating condition upon
and responsibility for inspecting, testing, and maintaining the                  completion of system testing.
                                                                                 14.2.7 Interface Equipment and Emergency Control Functions.
L fire protection systems to the occupant, management firm, or                   14.2.7.1* Testing personnel shall be qualified and experi-
                                                                                 enced in the arrangement and operation of interface equip-
managing individual through specific provisions in the lease,                    ment and emergency control functions.
                                                                                 14.2.7.2 Testing shall be accomplished in accordance with
A written use agreement, or management contract.                                 Table 14.4.3.2.
                                                                                 14.2.8 Automated Testing.
14.2.3.3 Inspection, testing, or maintenance shall be permit-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ted to be done by the building or system owner or a person or
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} organization other than the building or system owner if

conducted under a written contract.

IV 14.2.3.4 Where the building or system owner has delegated

any responsibilities for inspection, testing, or maintenance, a
copy of the written delegation required by 14.2.3.3 shall be

D provided to the authority having jurisdiction upon request.

14.2.3.5 Testing and maintenance of central station service

IN systems shall be performed under the contractual arrange-

ments specified in 26.3.3.
14.2.3.6* Service Personnel Qualifications and Experience.

R Service personnel shall be qualified and experienced in accord-

ance with the requirements of 10.5.3.

FO 14.2.4* Notification.
14.2.4.1 Before proceeding with any testing, all persons and                     14.2.8.1 Automated testing arrangements that provide equiva-
facilities receiving alarm, supervisory, or trouble signals and all              lent means of testing devices to those specified in Table
building occupants shall be notified of the testing to prevent                   14.4.3.2 at a frequency at least equivalent to those specified in
unnecessary response.                                                            Table 14.4.3.2 shall be permitted to be used to comply with the
14.2.4.2 At the conclusion of testing, those previously notified                 requirements of this chapter.
(and others, as necessary) shall be notified that testing has                    14.2.8.2 Failure of a device on an automated test shall result
been concluded.                                                                  in an audible and visual trouble signal.

14.2.4.3 The owner or the owner's designated representative                      14.2.9* Performance-Based Inspection and Testing. As an
and service personnel shall coordinate system testing to                         alternate means of compliance, subject to the authority having
prevent interruption of critical building systems or equipment.                  jurisdiction, components and systems shall be permitted to be
14.2.5 System Documentation. Prior to system maintenance                         inspected and tested under a performance-based program.
or testing, the record of completion and any information

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                      INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                       72-85

14.2.10* Test Plan.                                                                                 verify critical system functions such as notification appliances,
14.2.10.1 A test plan shall be developed to clearly establish the                                   control functions, and off-premises reporting.
scope of the testing for the fire alarm or signaling system.                                        14.4.3* Test Methods.

14.2.10.2 The test plan and results shall be documented with                                        14.4.3.1* At the request of the authority having jurisdiction,
the testing records.                                                                                the central station facility installation shall be inspected for
                                                                                                    complete information regarding the central station system,
14.3 Inspection.                                                                                    including specifications, wiring diagrams, and floor plans that

 14.3.1* Unless otherwise permitted by 14.3.2, visual inspec-                                       have been submitted for approval prior to installation of equip-
   tions shall be performed in accordance with the schedules in                                     ment and wiring.

   Table 14.3.1 or more often if required by the authority having                                    14.4.3.2* Systems and associated equipment shall be tested
   jurisdiction.                                                                                       according to Table 14.4.3.2.
   14.3.2 Devices or equipment that is inaccessible for safety                                         14.4.3.3 Video image smoke and flame detectors shall be
   considerations (e.g., continuous process operations, energized                                      inspected, tested, and maintained in accordance with the
                                                                                                       manufacturer's published instructions.
Y electrical equipment, radiation, and excessive height) shall be                                      14.4.3.4 Gas detectors shall be inspected, tested, and main-
                                                                                                       tained in accordance with manufacturers' published instruc-
   permitted to be inspected during scheduled shutdowns if                                             tions.

L approved by the authority having jurisdiction.                                                    N 14.4.3.5 Testing of CO System Detectors. For all carbon
N 14.3.3 Extended intervals shall not exceed 18 months.                                                monoxide system detectors installed after January 1, 2012,
                                                                                                       carbon monoxide tests shall be performed at initial acceptance
   14.3.4 Initial and reacceptance inspections shall be made to                                        and annually by the introduction of carbon monoxide into the
                                                                                                       sensing chamber or element.
O ensure compliance with approved design documents and to                                              14.4.4* Testing Frequency. Unless otherwise permitted by
                                                                                                       other sections of this Code, testing shall be performed in
   ensure installation in accordance with this Code and other                                          accordance with the schedules in Table 14.4.3.2 or more often
                                                                                                       if required by the authority having jurisdiction.
E required installation standards.                                                                     14.4.4.1 Devices or equipment that are inaccessible for safety
                                                                                                       considerations (e.g., continuous process operations, energized
   14.3.5 Periodic visual inspections in accordance with Table                                         electrical equipment, radiation, and excessive height) shall be
                                                                                                       permitted to be tested during scheduled shutdowns if approved
S 14.3.1 shall be made to assure that there are no changes that                                        by the authority having jurisdiction. Extended intervals shall
                                                                                                       not exceed 18 months.
   affect equipment performance.                                                                       14.4.4.2 If automatic testing is performed at least weekly by a
                                                                                                       remotely monitored fire alarm control unit specifically listed
U 14.4 Testing.                                                                                        for the application, the manual testing frequency shall be
L 14.4.1 Initial Acceptance Testing.                                                                   permitted to be extended to annually. Table 14.4.3.2 shall
A 14.4.1.1 All new systems shall be inspected and tested in                                            apply.
                                                                                                       14.4.4.3* In other than one- and two-family dwellings, sensitiv-
   accordance with the requirements of Chapter 14.                                                     ity of smoke detectors shall be tested in accordance with
                                                                                                       14.4.4.3.1 through 14.4.4.3.6.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 14.4.1.2 The authority having jurisdiction shall be notified   14.4.4.3.1 Sensitivity shall be checked within 1 year after
ID prior to the initial acceptance test.                                                               installation.
                                                                                                       14.4.4.3.2 Sensitivity shall be checked every alternate year
   14.4.2* Reacceptance Testing.                                                                       thereafter unless otherwise permitted by compliance with
                                                                                                       14.4.4.3.3.
IV 14.4.2.1 When an initiating device, notification appliance, or

   control relay is added, it shall be functionally tested.

D 14.4.2.2 When an initiating device, notification appliance, or

   control relay is deleted, another device, appliance, or control

IN relay on the circuit shall be operated.

   14.4.2.3 When modifications or repairs to control equipment
   hardware are made, the control equipment shall be tested in

R accordance with Table 14.4.3.2, items 2(a) and 2(d).
O14.4.2.4 When changes are made to site-specific software, the

   following shall apply:

F(1) All functions known to be affected by the change, or iden-
          tified by a means that indicates changes, shall be
100 percent tested.
(2) In addition, 10 percent of initiating devices that are not                                      14.4.4.3.3 After the second required calibration test, if sensi-
                                                                                                    tivity tests indicate that the device has remained within its listed
directly affected by the change, up to a maximum of 50                                              and marked sensitivity range (or 4 percent obscuration light
devices, also shall be tested and correct system operation                                          gray smoke, if not marked), the length of time between calibra-
shall be verified.                                                                                  tion tests shall be permitted to be extended to a maximum of 5
(3) A revised record of completion in accordance with 7.5.6
shall be prepared to reflect these changes.                                                         years.

14.4.2.5 Changes to the system executive software shall                                             14.4.4.3.3.1 If the frequency is extended, records of nuisance
require a 10 percent functional test of the system, including a                                     alarms and subsequent trends of these alarms shall be main-
                                                                                                    tained.
test of at least one device on each input and output circuit to

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-86                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.3.1 Visual Inspection

                           Component                           Initial   Periodic                 Method                      Reference
                                                            Acceptance  Frequency

1. All equipment                                            X           Annual      Ensure there are no changes that affect   14.3.4
                                                                                    equipment performance. Inspect for
                                                                                    building modifications, occupancy
                                                                                    changes, changes in environmental
                                                                                    conditions, device location, physical
                                                                                    obstructions, device orientation,
                                                                                    physical damage, and degree of
                                                                                    cleanliness.

2. Control equipment:                                                               Verify a system normal condition.
           (1) Fire alarm systems monitored for alarm,
            supervisory, and trouble signals                X           Annual
              (a) Fuses                                     X           Annual
                                                            X           Annual
  Y (b) Interfaced equipment                                X           Annual
                                                            X           Semiannual
              (c) Lamps and LEDs                                                    Verify a system normal condition.

  L (d) Primary (main) power supply                         X           Weekly
                                                            X           Weekly
              (e) Trouble signals                           X           Weekly
                                                            X           Weekly
 N (2) Fire alarm systems unmonitored for alarm,            X           Weekly

            supervisory, and trouble signals                                        Verify location, physical condition, and
                                                                                    a system normal condition.
  O (a) Fuses                                               X           Annual
                                                            X           Annual
              (b) Interfaced equipment                      X           Annual
              (c) Lamps and LEDs                            X           Annual
                                                            X           Annual
  E (d) Primary (main) power supply
                                                            X           Semiannual Verify location and condition.
              (e) Trouble signals
                                                                                                                              10.6.10
S 3. Reserved
U 4. Supervising station alarm systems -- transmitters      X           N/A

           (1) Digital alarm communicator transmitter (DACT)

 L (2) Digital alarm radio transmitter (DART)

           (3) McCulloh

 A (4) Radio alarm transmitter (RAT)

           (5) All other types of communicators

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 5. In-building fire emergency voice/alarm
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} communications equipment

ID 6. Reserved

7. Reserved

IV 8. Reserved

9.* Batteries

 D (1) Valve-regulated lead-acid (VRLA) batteries
FOR IN (a) General
                                                                                    Ensure month and year of manufacture
                                                                                    is marked in the month/year format
                                                                                    on each battery cell/unit. Verify
                                                                                    tightness of battery connections.
                                                                                    Inspect terminals for corrosion,
                                                                                    excessive container/cover distortion,
                                                                                    cracks in cell/unit or leakage of
                                                                                    electrolyte. Replace any battery cell/
                                                                                    unit if corrosion, distortion, or
                                                                                    leakage is observed.
              (b) Marking                                   N/A         Semiannual Verify marking of the month/year of
                                                                                    manufacture on each battery cell/
                                                                                    unit. Replace any cell/unit if alarm
                                                                                    equipment manufacturer's
                                                                                    replacement date has been exceeded.
       (2) Primary (dry cell)                               X           Semiannual Verify marking of the month/year of
       other than those used in low-power radio (wireless)                          manufacture. Replace if alarm
       systems in accordance with Chapter 23                                        equipment/battery manufacturer's
                                                                                    replacement date has been exceeded.
                                                                                    Replacement date not to exceed
                                                                                    12 months. Verify tightness of
                                                                                    connections. Inspect for corrosion or
                                                                                    leakage. Replace any battery cell/unit
                                                                                    if corrosion or leakage is observed.

                                                                                                                              (continues)

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                   INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                                  72-87

 Table 14.3.1 Continued

              Component                                             Initial   Periodic                   Method                          Reference
                                                                 Acceptance  Frequency

10. Reserved

11. Remote annunciators                                          X           Semiannual Verify location and condition.

12. Notification appliance circuit power extenders               X           Annual      Verify proper fuse ratings, if any. Verify      10.6
                                                                                         that lamps and LEDs indicate normal
                                                                                         operating status of the equipment.

13. Remote power supplies                                        X           Annual      Verify proper fuse ratings, if any. Verify      10.6
                                                                                         that lamps and LEDs indicate normal
                                                                                         operating status of the equipment.
     14. Transient suppressors
                                                                 X           Semiannual Verify location and condition.
Y 15. Reserved
L 16. Fiber-optic cable connections                              X           Annual      Verify location and condition.

     17. Initiating devices                                                              Verify location and condition (all
                                                                                            devices).
  N (1) Air sampling
                    (a) General                                  X           Semiannual Verify that in-line filters, if any, are clean.  17.7.3.6
   O (b) Sampling system piping and sampling ports               X           N/A         Verify that sampling system piping and          17.7.3.6
                                                                                         fittings are installed properly, appear
  USE (2) Duct detectors                                                                 airtight, and are permanently fixed.
                    (a) General                                                          Confirm that sampling pipe is
                                                                                         conspicuously identified. Verify that
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UAL (b) Sampling tube                                                  sample ports or points are not
  ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (3) Electromechanical releasing devices                        obstructed.
  IV (4) Fire extinguishing system(s) or suppression
                                                                 X           Semiannual Verify that detector is rigidly mounted.         17.7.5.5
                 system(s) switches                                                      Confirm that no penetrations in a
                 (5) Manual fire alarm boxes                                             return air duct exist in the vicinity of
                                                                                         the detector. Confirm the detector is
  D (6) Heat detectors                                                                   installed so as to sample the airstream
                                                                                         at the proper location in the duct.
                 (7) Radiant energy fire detectors               X           Annual      Verify proper orientation. Confirm the          17.7.5.5
                                                                                         sampling tube protrudes into the
  IN (8) Video image smoke and fire detectors                                            duct in accordance with system
  R(9) Smoke detectors (excluding one- and two-family                                    design.
                                                                 X           Semiannual
                 dwellings)                                      X           Semiannual

 O(10) Projected beam smoke detectors                            X           Semiannual
                 (11) Supervisory signal devices                 X           Semiannual

F (12) Waterflow devices
                                                                 X           Quarterly   Verify no point requiring detection is          17.8
                                                                                         obstructed or outside the detector's
                                                                                         field of view.
                                                                 X           Quarterly   Verify no point requiring detection is          17.7.7; 17.11.5
                                                                                         obstructed or outside the detector's
                                                                                         field of view.
                                                                 X           Semiannual

                                                                 X           Semiannual Verify beam path is unobstructed.
                                                                 X           Quarterly
                                                                 X           Quarterly

18. Reserved

19. Combination systems                                          X           Semiannual  Verify location and condition (all types).
           (1) Fire extinguisher electronic monitoring devices/
            systems                                              X           Semiannual
           (2) Carbon monoxide detectors/systems

20. Alarm control interface and emergency control                X           Semiannual Verify location and condition.
            function interface

21. Guard's tour equipment                                       X           Semiannual Verify location and condition.

22. Notification appliances                                                              Verify location and condition (all
           (1) Audible appliances                                                        appliances).
                                                                 X           Semiannual

                                                                                                                                         (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-88                                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.3.1 Continued

              Component                              Initial   Periodic                   Method                 Reference
                                                  Acceptance  Frequency

       (2) Loudspeakers                           X           Semiannual
       (3) Visual appliances
                                                  X           Semiannual                                         18.5.5
          (a) General                             X           N/A         Verify the appliance candela rating    18.5.5
          (b) Candela rating                                              marking or the FACU controlled

                                                                          candela rating agrees with the
                                                                          approved drawings.

23. Exit marking audible notification appliances  X           Semiannual Verify location and condition.

Y 26. Reserved
24. Reserved

25. Two-way emergency communications systems      X           Annual      Verify location and condition.
L 27. Supervising station alarm systems -- receivers
           (1) Signal receipt                     X           Daily
 N (2) Receivers
                                                                          Verify receipt of signal.
28. Public emergency alarm reporting system transmissionX     Annual

 O equipment

           (1) Publicly accessible alarm box
           (2) Auxiliary box

 E (3) Master box
               (a) Manual operation
  S (b) Auxiliary operation
                                                                          Verify location and normal condition.

                                                                          Verify location and condition.

                                                  X           Semiannual
                                                  X           Annual

                                                  X           Semiannual
U 30. Mass notification system                    X           Annual
           (1) Monitored for integrity
29. ReservedL (a) Control equipment
                  (i) Fuses
  A (ii) Interfaces                                                       Verify a system normal condition.
                  (iii) Lamps/LED
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (iv) Primary (main) power supplyX         Annual
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (b) Secondary power batteriesX       Annual
               (c) Initiating devices             X           Annual
  ID (d) Notification appliances                  X           Annual
           (2) Not monitored for integrity; installed prior toXAnnual
            adoption of the 2010 edition          X           Annual
  IV (a) Control equipment                        X           Annual
                  (i) Fuses                                               Verify a system normal condition.
                  (ii) Interfaces
  D (iii) Lamps/LED                               X           Semiannual
                  (iv) Primary (main) power supplyX           Semiannual
  IN (b) Secondary power batteries                X           Semiannual
               (c) Initiating devices             X           Semiannual
               (d) Notification appliances        X           Semiannual
           (3) Antenna                            X           Semiannual
 R (4) Transceivers
                                                  X           Semiannual
                                                  X           Annual      Verify location and condition.
Note: N/A = not applicable, no minimum requirement established.Annual

O *For other than VRLA or primary (dry) cell batteries, refer to the battery manufacturer's published instructions or IEEE 450, Recommended Practice for
FMaintenance, Testing, and Replacement of Vented Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary Applications, for vented lead-acid batteries, and IEEE 1106, Recommended
                                                  X                       Verify location and condition.

Practice for Installation, Maintenance, Testing, and Replacement of Vented Nickel-Cadmium Batteries for Stationary Applications, for nickel-cadmium batteries.

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                        INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                               72-89

 Table 14.4.3.2 Testing

           Component                    Initial   Periodic                     Method
                                     Acceptance  Frequency

1. All equipment                     X                      See Table 14.3.1.

2. Control equipment and
transponder
(1) Functions                        X           Annually   Verify correct receipt of alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals (inputs); operation
                                                            of evacuation signals and auxiliary functions (outputs); circuit supervision,
                                                            including detection of open circuits and ground faults; and power supply
                                                            supervision for detection of loss of ac power and disconnection of secondary
                                                            batteries.
(2) Fuses                            X           Annually   Verify rating and supervision.
                                                 Annually   Verify integrity of single or multiple circuits providing interface between two or

                                                 Annually      more control units. Test interfaced equipment connections by operating or
                                                 Annually      simulating operation of the equipment being supervised. Verify signals required
                                                               to be transmitted at the control unit.
                                                 Annually   Illuminate lamps and LEDs.
                                                 Annually   Disconnect all secondary (standby) power and test under maximum load,
                                                 Annually      including all alarm appliances requiring simultaneous operation. Reconnect all
                                                 Annually      secondary (standby) power at end of test. Test redundant power supplies
                                                               separately.
                                                            Verify operation of control unit trouble signals. Verify ring-back feature for systems
                                                               using a trouble-silencing switch that requires resetting.
                                                            If control unit has disconnect or isolating switches, verify performance of intended
                                                               function of each switch. Verify receipt of trouble signal when a supervised
                                                               function is disconnected.
                                                            If the system has a ground detection feature, verify the occurrence of ground-fault
                                                               indication whenever any installation conductor is grounded.
                                                            Actuate an initiating device and verify receipt of alarm signal at the off-premises
                                                               location.
                                                            Create a trouble condition and verify receipt of a trouble signal at the off-premises
                                                               location.
                                                            Actuate a supervisory device and verify receipt of a supervisory signal at the off-
                                                               premises location. If a transmission carrier is capable of operation under a
                                                               single- or multiple-fault condition, actuate an initiating device during such fault
                                                               condition and verify receipt of an alarm signal and a trouble signal at the off-
                                                               premises location.
Y (4) Lamps and LEDs                 X
(3) Interfaced equipment

L (5) Primary (main) power supply
ON 3. Alarm control unit trouble signalsX
                                     X

E (2) Disconnect switches            X
(1) Audible and visual
S (3) Ground-fault monitoring
                                     X
U circuit
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-41DE5BD47BC8} 4. Supervising station alarm systemsX

(4) Transmission of signals to off-  X
premises location

IV (1) All equipment
-- transmission equipment
IND (2) Digital alarm communicator   X           Annually   aTest all system functions and features in accordance with the equipment
                                                 Annually      manufacturer's published instructions for correct operation in conformance
FORtransmitter (DACT)                X                         with the applicable sections of Chapter 26.

                                                            Except for DACT, actuate initiating device and verify receipt of the correct
                                                               initiating device signal at the supervising station within 90 seconds. Upon
                                                               completion of the test, restore the system to its functional operating condition.

                                                            If test jacks are used, conduct the first and last tests without the use of the test jack.
                                                            Except for DACTs installed prior to adoption of the 2013 edition of NFPA 72 that

                                                               are connected to a telephone line (number) that is also supervised for adverse
                                                               conditions by a derived local channel, ensure connection of the DACT to two
                                                               separate means of transmission.
                                                            Test DACT for line seizure capability by initiating a signal while using the
                                                               telephone line (primary line for DACTs using two telephone lines) for a
                                                               telephone call. Ensure that the call is interrupted and that the communicator
                                                            connects to the digital alarm receiver. Verify receipt of the correct signal at the
                                                            supervising station. Verify each transmission attempt is completed within
                                                            90 seconds from going off-hook to on-hook.
                                                            Disconnect the telephone line (primary line for DACTs using two telephone lines)
                                                            from the DACT. Verify indication of the DACT trouble signal occurs at the
                                                            premises fire alarm control unit within 4 minutes of detection of the fault. Verify
                                                            receipt of the telephone line trouble signal at the supervising station. Restore
                                                            the telephone line (primary line for DACTs using two telephone lines), reset the
                                                            fire alarm control unit, and verify that the telephone line fault trouble signal
                                                            returns to normal. Verify that the supervising station receives the restoral signal
                                                            from the DACT.

                                                                                                                 (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-90                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

              Component                    Initial   Periodic                                   Method
                                        Acceptance  Frequency

                                                               Disconnect the secondary means of transmission from the DACT. Verify indication
                                                               of the DACT trouble signal occurs at the premises fire alarm control unit within
                                                               4 minutes of detection of the fault. Verify receipt of the secondary means trouble
                                                               signal at the supervising station. Restore the secondary means of transmission,
                                                               reset the fire alarm control unit, and verify that the trouble signal returns to
                                                               normal. Verify that the supervising station receives the restoral signal from the
                                                               secondary transmitter.
                                                               Cause the DACT to transmit a signal to the DACR while a fault in the telephone
                                                               line (number) (primary line for DACTs using two telephone lines) is simulated.
                                                               Verify utilization of the secondary communications path by the DACT to
      (3) Digital alarm radio                                  complete the transmission to the DACR.
                                        X           Annually   Disconnect the primary telephone line. Verify transmission of a trouble signal to
 Y transmitter (DART)                                          the supervising station by the DART occurs within 4 minutes.
                                        X           Annually   Actuate initiating device. Verify production of not less than three complete rounds
      (4) McCulloh transmitter                                 of not less than three signal impulses each by the McCulloh transmitter.
                                                               If end-to-end metallic continuity is present and with a balanced circuit, cause each
 USE ONL (5) Radio alarm transmitter                           of the following four transmission channel fault conditions in turn, and verify
 L (RAT)                                                       receipt of correct signals at the supervising station:
 A (6) Performance-based                                       (1) Open
{C56A4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} technologies    (2) Ground
                                                               (3) Wire-to-wire short
                                                               (4) Open and ground
                                                               If end-to-end metallic continuity is not present and with a properly balanced
                                                               circuit, cause each of the following three transmission channel fault conditions
                                                               in turn, and verify receipt of correct signals at the supervising station:
                                                               (1) Open
                                                               (2) Ground
                                                               (3) Wire-to-wire short
                                        X           Annually   Cause a fault between elements of the transmitting equipment. Verify indication of
                                                               the fault at the protected premises, or transmission of trouble signal to the
                                                               supervising station.
                                        X           Annually   Perform tests to ensure the monitoring of integrity of the transmission technology
                                                               and technology
                                                               path.Where shared communications equipment is used as permitted by
                                                               26.6.3.1.14, provided secondary (standby) power sources shall be tested in
                                                               accordance with Table 14.4.3.2, item 7, 8, or 9, as applicable.
                                                               Where a single communications path is used, disconnect the communication path.
                                                               Manually initiate an alarm signal transmission or allow the check-in (handshake)
                                                               signal to be transmitted automatically. bVerify the premises unit annunciates the
                                                               failure within 200 seconds of the transmission failure. Restore the
                                                               communication path.
                                                               Where multiple communication paths are used, disconnect both communication
                                                               paths. Manually initiate an alarm signal transmission. Verify the premises control
                                                               unit annunciates the failure within 200 seconds of the transmission failure.
                                                               Restore both communication paths.
       R (1) Amplifier/tone generators
5. Emergency communications
       equipment
       O(3) Off-hook indicator (ring    X           Annually   Verify correct switching and operation of backup equipment.
       (2) Call-in signal silence       X           Annually   Operate/function and verify receipt of correct visual and audible signals at control
Fdown)                                                         unit.
                                        X           Annually   Install phone set or remove phone from hook and verify receipt of signal at control
                                                               unit.
       (4) Phone jacks                  X           Annually   Visually inspect phone jack and initiate communications path through jack.
       (5) Phone set                    X           Annually   Actuate each phone set and verify correct operation.
       (6) System performance           X           Annually   Operate the system with a minimum of any five handsets simultaneously. Verify
                                                               voice quality and clarity.

6. Engine-driven generator              X           Monthly    If an engine-driven generator dedicated to the system is used as a required power
                                                               source, verify operation of the generator and transfer switch in accordance with
                                                               NFPA 110 by the building owner.

7. Energy storage systems (ESS)         X           Annually   If an ESS system dedicated to the system is used as a required power source, verify
                                                               by the building owner operation of the ESS system in accordance with NFPA 111.

                                                                                                                                           (continues)

2019 Edition                       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                         INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                                   72-91

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

Component                                Initial   Periodic                           Method
                                      Acceptance  Frequency

8. Secondary (standby) power supplyc  X           Annually   Disconnect all primary (main) power supplies and verify the occurrence of
                                                                required trouble indication for loss of primary power. Measure or verify the
                                                                system's standby and alarm current demand using the equipment manufacturer's
                                                                data and verify the battery's rated capacity exceeds the system's power demand,
                                                                including the safety margin. Operate general alarm systems a minimum of
                                                                5 minutes and emergency voice communications systems for a minimum of
                                                                15 minutes. Reconnect primary (main) power supply at end of test.

9. VRLA battery and chargerd                                 Prior to conducting any battery testing, verify by the person conducting the test,
                                                             that all system software stored in volatile memory is protected from loss.
               (1) Temperature test   X           Semiannually Upon initially opening the cabinet door, measure and record the temperature of
                                                             each battery cell/unit at the negative terminal with an infrared thermometer.
  Y (2) Charger testf                                        Replace any battery cell/unit if the temperature is greater than 18°F (10°C)
  NL (3) Cell/Unit voltage test                              above ambient.
  O (4) Ohmic testg                   X           Semiannually With the battery fully charged and connected to the charger, measure the voltage
  AL USE (5) Replacement/Load testh                          across the battery with a voltmeter. Verify the voltage is within the battery/alarm
{C56A4DC7-64IFV7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 10. Public emergency alarm reportingequipment manufacturer's recommendations. If the voltage is outside of the
FOR IND system -- wired system                               specified limits, either adjust the charger to within limits or replace the charger.
                                      X           Semiannually With the battery fully charged and connected to the charger, measure the voltage
                                                             of each cell/unit with a voltmeter. Replace the battery when any cell/unit
                                                             measures a voltage less than 13.26 volts.
                                      X           N/A        When the battery is installed, establish a baseline ohmic value for each battery cell/
                                                             unit or where available use baseline ohmic values provided by the battery or test
                                                             equipment manufacturer. In either case record the base line ohmic value on
                                                             each battery cell/unit.
                                                  Semiannually With the battery fully charged and connected to the charger, measure the internal
                                                             ohmic value of each battery cell/unit. Record the test date and ohmic value on
                                                             each cell/unit. Replace the battery when the ohmic measurement of any cell/
                                                             unit deviates from the established baseline by 30% or more for conductance and
                                                             40% or more for resistance or impedance. Where the battery or test equipment
                                                             manufacturer's baseline ohmic values are used, replace the battery when any
                                                             cell/unit has an internal ohmic value outside of the acceptable range.
                                                  3 years    Replace the battery or conduct a load test of the battery capacity. Load test the
                                                             battery based on the manufacturer's specifications for a discharge rate of 3 hours
                                                             or more by applying the current indicated for the selected hourly discharge rate
                                                             continuously, until the terminal voltage decreases to the end voltage specified by
                                                             the manufacturer. Record the test duration and calculate the battery capacity
                                                             including adjustment for ambient temperature. Replace the battery if capacity is
                                                             less than or equal to 80% or at the next scheduled test interval if battery capacity
                                                             is less than 85%.

                                      X           Daily      Manual tests of the power supply for public reporting circuits shall be made and
                                                             recorded at least once during each 24-hour period. Such tests shall include the
                                                             following:
                                                             (1) Current strength of each circuit. Changes in current of any circuit exceeding
                                                             10 percent shall be investigated immediately.
                                                             (2) Voltage across terminals of each circuit inside of terminals of protective devices.
                                                             Changes in voltage of any circuit exceeding 10 percent shall be investigated
                                                             immediately.
                                                             (3)i Voltage between ground and circuits. If this test shows a reading in excess of
                                                             50 percent of that shown in the test specified in (2), the trouble shall be
                                                             immediately located and cleared. Readings in excess of 25 percent shall be given
                                                             early attention. These readings shall be taken with a calibrated voltmeter of not
                                                             more than 100 ohms resistance per volt. Systems in which each circuit is supplied
                                                             by an independent current source (Forms 3 and 4) require tests between ground
                                                             and each side of each circuit. Common current source systems (Form 2) require
                                                             voltage tests between ground and each terminal of each battery and other
                                                             current source.
                                                             (4) Ground current reading shall be permitted in lieu of (3). If this method of
                                                             testing is used, all grounds showing a current reading in excess of 5 percent of
                                                             the supplied line current shall be given immediate attention.
                                                             (5) Voltage across terminals of common battery on switchboard side of fuses.
                                                             (6) Voltage between common battery terminals and ground. Abnormal ground
                                                             readings shall be investigated immediately.
                                                             Tests specified in (5) and (6) shall apply only to those systems using a common
                                                             battery. If more than one common battery is used, each common battery shall be
                                                             tested.

                                                                                                                                     (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.             2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-92                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

               Component                    Initial   Periodic                            Method
                                         Acceptance  Frequency

11. Remote annunciators                  X           Annually   Verify the correct operation and identification of annunciators. If provided, verify
                                                                the correct operation of annunciator under a fault condition.

12. Reserved

13. Reserved

14. Reserved

15. Conductors -- metallic                             N/A
       (1) Stray voltage                 X             N/A      Test all installation conductors with a volt/ohmmeter to verify that there are no
       Y (2) Ground faults                             N/A         stray (unwanted) voltages between installation conductors or between
       NL (3) Short-circuit faults       X             N/A         installation conductors and ground. Verify the maximum allowable stray voltage
                                                       N/A         does not exceed 1 volt ac/dc, unless a different threshold is specified in the
       O (4) Loop resistance             X                         manufacturer's published instructions for the installed equipment.
                                                     Annually
       SE (5) Circuit integrity          X             N/A      Test all installation conductors, other than those intentionally and permanently
                                                       N/A         grounded, for isolation from ground per the installed equipment manufacturer's
                                                                   published instructions.
                                                     Annually
                                                                Test all installation conductors, other than those intentionally connected together,
                                                                   for conductor-to-conductor isolation per the manufacturer's published
                                                                   instructions for the installed equipment. Also test these same circuits conductor-
                                                                   to-ground.

                                                                With each initiating and indicating circuit installation conductor pair short-
                                                                   circuited at the far end, measure and record the resistance of each circuit. Verify
                                                                   that the loop resistance does not exceed the limits specified in the
                                                                   manufacturer's published instructions for the installed equipment.

                                                                For initial and reacceptance testing, confirm the introduction of a fault in any
                                                                   circuit monitored for integrity results in a trouble indication at the fire alarm
                                                                   control unit. Open one connection at not less than 10 percent of the initiating
                                                                   devices, notification appliances and controlled devices on every initiating device
                                                                   circuit, notification appliance circuit, and signaling line circuit. Confirm all
                                                                   circuits perform as indicated in Sections 23.5, 23.6, and 23.7.

                                                                For periodic testing, test each initiating device circuit, notification appliance
                                                                   circuit, and signaling line circuit for correct indication at the control unit.
                                                                   Confirm all circuits perform as indicated in Sections 23.5, 23.6, and 23.7.

                                                                Test the fiber-optic transmission line by the use of an optical power meter or by an
                                                                   optical time domain reflectometer used to measure the relative power loss of the
                                                                   line. Test result data must meet or exceed ANSI/TIA 568-C.3, Optical Fiber
                                                                   Cabling Components Standard, related to fiber-optic lines and connection/splice
                                                                   losses and the control unit manufacturer's published specifications.

                                                                For initial and reacceptance testing, confirm the introduction of a fault in any
                                                                   circuit monitored for integrity results in a trouble indication at the fire alarm
                                                                   control unit. Open one connection at not less than 10 percent of the initiating
                                                                   devices, notification appliances, and controlled devices on every initiating device
                                                                   circuit, notification appliance circuit, and signaling line circuit. Confirm all
                                                                   circuits perform as indicated in Sections 23.5, 23.6, and 23.7.

                                                                For periodic testing, test each initiating device circuit, notification appliance
                                                                   circuit, and signaling line circuit for correct indication at the control unit.
                                                                   Confirm all circuits perform as indicated in Sections 23.5, 23.6, and 23.7.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-AB3L68-U41DE5BD47BC8} 16. Conductors -- nonmetallicX
 ID (1) Fiber optics
 IV (2) Circuit integrity                N/A
      INDN/A                              X
R 17. Initiating devicesj                 X

 O(1) Electromechanical releasing                    Annually   Verify correct operation by removal of the fusible link and operation of the
Fdevice
       (a) Nonrestorable-type link       X                      associated device.

       (b) Restorable-type linkk         X           Annually   Verify correct operation by removal of the fusible link and operation of the
                                                                associated device.
       (2) Fire extinguishing system(s)  X           Annually   Operate the switch mechanically or electrically and verify receipt of signal by the
       or suppression system(s) alarm                           fire alarm control unit.
       switch
       (3) Fire­gas and other detectors  X           Annually   Test fire­gas detectors and other fire detectors as prescribed by the manufacturer
                                                                and as necessary for the application.
       (4) Heat detectors
       (a) Fixed-temperature, rate-of-   X           Annually   Perform heat test with a listed and labeled heat source or in accordance with the
       rise, rate of compensation,                   (see       manufacturer's published instructions. Assure that the test method for the
       restorable line, spot type                    14.4.4.5)  installed equipment does not damage the nonrestorable fixed-temperature
       (excluding pneumatic tube type)                          element of a combination rate-of-rise/fixed-temperature element detector.

                                                                                                                               (continues)

2019 Edition                        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                   INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                                    72-93

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

           Component               Initial   Periodic                                        Method
                                Acceptance  Frequency

(b) Fixed-temperature,          X           Annually   Do not perform heat test. Test functionality mechanically and electrically. Measure
nonrestorable line type                                and record loop resistance. Investigate changes from acceptance test.
(c) Fixed-temperature,          X           See Method After 15 years from initial installation, replace all devices or have 2 detectors per
nonrestorable spot type                                100 laboratory tested. Replace the 2 detectors with new devices. If a failure
                                                       occurs on any of the detectors removed, remove and test additional detectors to
                                                       determine either a general problem involving faulty detectors or a localized
                                                       problem involving 1 or 2 defective detectors.
                                                       If detectors are tested instead of replaced, repeat tests at intervals of 5 years.
(d) Nonrestorable (general)     X           Annually   Do not perform heat tests. Test functionality mechanically and electrically.
(e) Restorable line type,       X           Annually   Perform heat tests (where test chambers are in circuit), with a listed and labeled
Y (f) Single- and multiple-
pneumatic tube only                                    heat source or in accordance with the manufacturer's published instructions of
L (5) Manual fire alarm boxes
                                X                      the detector or conduct a test with pressure pump.
                                            Annually   Conduct functional tests according to manufacturer's published instructions. Do
station heat alarms                                    not test nonrestorable heat detectors with heat.
N (6) Radiant energy fire detectorsX        Annually
                                                       Operate manual fire alarm boxes per the manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                       Test both key-operated presignal and general alarm manual fire alarm boxes.
                                X                      O Determine flame detector and spark/ember detector sensitivity using any of the
                                            Semiannually Test flame detectors and spark/ember detectors in accordance with the
                                                       manufacturer's published instructions to determine that each detector is
                                                       operative.
                                                       E (2) Manufacturer's calibrated sensitivity test instrument
                                                       following:
                                                       S (4) Other approved calibrated sensitivity test method that is directly proportional
                                                       (1) Calibrated test method

                                                       U If designed to be field adjustable, replace detectors found to be outside of the
                                                       (3) Listed control unit arranged for the purpose

                                                       to the input signal from a fire, consistent with the detector listing or approval
                                                       L source that administers an unmeasured quantity of radiation at an undefined
                                                       approved range of sensitivity or adjust to bring them into the approved range.
A (7) Smoke detectors --                               Do not determine flame detector and spark/ember detector sensitivity using a light

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (a) In other than one- and         distance from the detector.

functional test
ID detectors                                           ITest smoke detectors in place to ensure smoke entry into the sensing chamber and
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} two-family dwellings, system
                                X           Annually   an alarm response. Use smoke or a listed and labeled product acceptable to the

IV (b) Single- and multiple-                           manufacturer or in accordance with their published instructions. Other methods
                                                       listed in the manufacturer's published instructions that ensure smoke entry from
                                                       the protected area, through the vents, into the sensing chamber can be used.
                                X           Annually   Perform a functional test on all single- and multiple-station smoke alarms
D used in one- and two-family
station smoke alarms connected                         connected to a protected premises fire alarm system by putting the smoke alarm
to protected premises systems                          into an alarm condition.
IN (d) Air sampling             X           Annually   Conduct functional tests according to manufacturer's published instructions.
(c) System smoke detectors

dwellings                       X           Annually   Test with smoke or a listed and labeled product acceptable to the manufacturer or

R test duct smoke detectors that use sampling tubes to ensure that they will
                                                       in accordance with their published instructions. Test from the end sampling port
                                                       or point on each pipe run. Verify airflow through all other ports or points.
(e) Duct type                   X           Annually   In addition to the testing required in Table 14.4.3.2(g)(1) and Table 14.4.3.2(h),
O manufacturer or in accordance with their published instructions.
F beam path.                                           properly sample the airstream in the duct using a method acceptable to the

(f) Projected beam type         X           Annually   Test the detector by introducing smoke, other aerosol, or an optical filter into the

(g) Smoke detector with built-  X           Annually   Operate both portions of the detector independently as described for the
in thermal element                                     respective devices.
(h) Smoke detectors with        X           Annually   Verify that the control capability remains operable even if all of the initiating
control output functions                               devices connected to the same initiating device circuit or signaling line circuit
                                                       are in an alarm state.
(8) Smoke detectors --
sensitivity testing
In other than one- and two-     N/A         See 14.4.4.3 mPerform any of the following tests to ensure that each smoke detector is within its
family dwellings, system                               listed and marked sensitivity range:
detectors
                                                       (1) Calibrated test method
                                                       (2) Manufacturer's calibrated sensitivity test instrument
                                                       (3) Listed control equipment arranged for the purpose
                                                       (4) Smoke detector/control unit arrangement whereby the detector causes a signal
                                                       at the control unit when its sensitivity is outside its listed sensitivity range

                                                                                                                                   (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-94                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

              Component                    Initial   Periodic                                 Method
                                        Acceptance  Frequency

                                                               (5) Other calibrated sensitivity test method approved by the authority having
                                                               jurisdiction
       (9) Carbon monoxide detectors/
       carbon monoxide alarms
       (a) CO entry test                X           Annually   Test the devices in place to ensure CO entry to the sensing chamber by
                                                               introduction through the vents, to the sensing chamber of listed and labeled
                                                               product acceptable to the manufacturer or in accordance with manufacturer's
                                                               published instructions
       (b) Air sampling                 X           Annually   Per test methods documented in the manufacturer's published instructions, verify
                                                               detector alarm response through the end sampling port on each pipe run; verify
           (c) Duct type                                       airflow through all other ports as well.
                                        X           Annually   Test or inspect air duct detectors to ensure that the device will sample the airstream
 Y (d) CO detector with control                                in accordance with the manufacturer's published instructions.
 L output functions                     X           Annually   Within each protected space, verify that the control capability remains operable
 N (10) Initiating devices,                                    even if all of the initiating devices connected to the same initiating device circuit
                                                               or signaling line circuit are in an alarm state.
        supervisory
           (a) Control valve switch

 E O (b) High- or low-air pressure

        switch

 S (c) Steam pressure
 U (d) Pressure supervisory
 L devices for other sources
 A (e) Room temperature switch
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (f) Water level switch
 ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (g) Water temperature switch
 IV (11) Mechanical, electrosonic,

        or pressure-type waterflow
        device

 IND (12) Multi-sensor fire detector

        or multi-criteria fire detector or

FOR combination fire detector
                                        X           Semiannual Operate valve and verify signal receipt to be within the first two revolutions of the
                                                               handwheel or within one-fifth of the travel distance, or per the manufacturer's
                                                               published instructions. Continue to cycle outside stem and yoke valves and verify
                                                               switch does not reset during full travel of the valve stem.
                                        X           Annually   Operate switch and verify receipt of signal is obtained where the required pressure
                                                               is increased or decreased a maximum 10 psi (70 kPa) from the required pressure
                                                               level.
                                        X           Annually   Operate switch and verify receipt of signal is obtained before pressure decreases to
                                                               110 percent of the minimum operating pressure of the steam-operated
                                                               equipment.
                                        X           Annually   Operate switch and verify receipt of signal is obtained where the required pressure
                                                               is increased or decreased from the normal operating pressure by an amount
                                                               specified in approved design documents.
                                        X           Annually   Operate switch and verify receipt of signal to indicate the decrease in room
                                                               temperature to 40°F (4.4°C) and its restoration to above 40°F (4.4°C).
                                        X           Annually   Operate switch and verify receipt of signal indicating the water level raised or
                                                               lowered a maximum 3 in. (70 mm) from the required level within a pressure
                                                               tank, or a maximum 12 in. (300 mm) from the required level of a nonpressure
                                                               tank. Also verify its restoral to required level.
                                        X           Annually   Operate switch and verify receipt of signal to indicate the decrease in water
                                                               temperature to 40°F (4.4°C) and its restoration to above 40°F (4.4°C).
                                        X           Semiannually Water shall be flowed through an inspector's test connection indicating the flow of
                                                               water equal to that from a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size installed in
                                                               the system or other listed and approved waterflow switch test methods for wet-
                                                               pipe systems, or an alarm test bypass connection for dry-pipe, pre-action, or
                                                               deluge systems in accordance with NFPA 25.
                                        X           Annually   Test each of the detection principles present within the detector (e.g., smoke/heat/
                                                               CO, etc.) independently for the specific detection principle, regardless of the
                                                               configuration status at the time of testing. Also test each detector in accordance
                                                               with the manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                               Test individual sensors together if the technology allows individual sensor
                                                               responses to be verified.
                                                               Perform tests as described for the respective devices by introduction of the physical
                                                               phenomena to the sensing chamber of element. An electronic check (magnets,
                                                               analog values, etc.) is not sufficient to comply with this requirement.
                                                               Verify by using the detector manufacturer's published instructions that the test gas
                                                               used will not impair the operation of either sensing chamber of a multisensor,
                                                               multicriteria, or combination fire detector.
                                                               Confirm the result of each sensor test through indication at the detector or control
                                                               unit.
                                                               Where individual sensors cannot be tested individually, test the primary sensor.n
                                                               Record all tests and results.

18. Special hazard equipment            X           Annually   Operate abort switch and verify correct sequence and operation.
       (1) Abort switch (dead-man
       type)
       (2) Abort switch (recycle type)  X           Annually   Operate abort switch and verify development of correct matrix with each sensor
                                                               operated.
       (3) Abort switch (special type)  X           Annually   Operate abort switch and verify correct sequence and operation in accordance with
                                                               authority having jurisdiction. Observe sequencing as specified on as-built
                                                               drawings or in system owner's manual.

                                                                                                                                            (continues)

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                          INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                                  72-95

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

           Component                      Initial   Periodic                                       Method
                                       Acceptance  Frequency

(4) Cross-zone detection circuit       X           Annually      Operate one sensor or detector on each zone. Verify occurrence of correct
                                                                 sequence with operation of first zone and then with operation of second zone.
(5) Matrix-type circuit                X           Annually      Operate all sensors in system. Verify development of correct matrix with each
                                                                 sensor operated.
(6) Release solenoid circuito          X           Annually      Verify operation of solenoid.
(7) Squibb release circuit             X           Annually      Use AGI flashbulb or other test light approved by the manufacturer. Verify
                                                                 operation of flashbulb or light.
(8) Verified, sequential, or           X           Annually      Operate required sensors at a minimum of four locations in circuit. Verify correct
counting zone circuit                                            sequence with both the first and second detector in alarm.
(9) All above devices or circuits      X           Annually      Verify supervision of circuits by creating an open circuit.
Y (1) Fire extinguisher electronic
or combinations thereof
NL (2) Carbon monoxidedevice/
19. Combination systems                X            Annually     Test communication between the device connecting the fire extinguisher
                                                    Annually        electronic monitoring device/system and the fire alarm control unit to ensure
monitoring device/system                           See 14.4.4.4     proper signals are received at the fire alarm control unit and remote
                                                                    annunciator(s) if applicable.
                                                    Annually
                                                                 Test communication between the device connecting the carbon monoxide device/
                                                                    system and the fire alarm control unit to ensure proper signals are received at
                                                                    the fire alarm control unit and remote annunciator(s) if applicable.

                                                                 Test interface equipment connections by operating or simulating the equipment
                                                                    being supervised. Verify signals required to be transmitted are received at the
                                                                    control unit. Test frequency for interface equipment is the same as the frequency
                                                                    required by the applicable NFPA standard(s) for the equipment being
                                                                    supervised.

                                                                 Test the device in accordance with the manufacturer's published instructions.
systemO 20. Interface equipmentp       X

USE 21. Guard's tour equipment         X

L (1) Audibleq                         X

22. Alarm notification appliances
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} (2) Audible textual notification
              appliances (loudspeakers and
  IV other appliances to convey voice
              messages)
                                       X             N/A         For initial and reacceptance testing, measure sound pressure levels for signals with
                                                   Annually         a sound level meter meeting ANSI S1.4a, Specifications for Sound Level Meters, Type
                                       N/A                          2 requirements. Measure sound pressure levels throughout the protected area to
                                        X            N/A            confirm that they are in compliance with Chapter 18. Set the sound level meter
                                                   Annually         in accordance with ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible
IND (3) Visual                         N/A                          Emergency Evacuation (E2) and Evacuation Signals with Relocation Instructions (ESRI),
FOR N/A                                 X            N/A            using the time-weighted characteristic F (FAST).
                                                   Annually
                                                                 rFor periodic testing, verify the operation of the notification appliances.
                                                                 For initial and reacceptance testing, measure sound pressure levels for signals with

                                                                    a sound level meter meeting ANSI S1.4a, Specifications for Sound Level Meters, Type
                                                                    2 requirements. Measure sound pressure levels throughout the protected area to
                                                                    confirm that they are in compliance with Chapter 18. Set the sound level meter
                                                                    in accordance with ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible
                                                                    Emergency Evacuation (E2) and Evacuation Signals with Relocation Instructions (ESRI),
                                                                    using the time-weighted characteristic F (FAST).
                                                                 Verify audible information to be intelligible and in compliance with 14.4.11.
                                                                 rFor periodic testing, verify the operation of the notification appliances.
                                                                 Perform initial and reacceptance testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
                                                                    published instructions. Verify appliance locations to be per approved layout and
                                                                    confirm that no floor plan changes affect the approved layout. Verify the candela
                                                                    rating or method of candela control marking on each visual appliance and
                                                                    rating when reported by the FACU agrees with the approved drawings. Confirm
                                                                    that each appliance flashes.
                                                                 For periodic testing, verify that each appliance flashes.

23. Exit marking audible notification  X           Annually      Perform tests in accordance with manufacturer's published instructions.
appliance

24. Emergency control functionss       X           Annually      For initial, reacceptance, and periodic testing, verify emergency control function
                                                                 interface device activation. Where an emergency control function interface
                                                                 device is disabled or disconnected during initiating device testing, verify that the
                                                                 disabled or disconnected emergency control function interface device has been
                                                                 properly restored, including electromagnetic devices used for door releasing
                                                                 services as part of a fire alarm system.

25. Two-way emergency                  X           Annually      Use the manufacturer's published instructions and the as-built drawings provided
           communications systems                                by the system supplier to verify correct operation after the initial testing phase
                                                                 has been performed by the supplier or by the supplier's designated
                                                                 representative.
                                                                 Test the two-way communication system to verify operation and receipt of visual
                                                                 and audible signals at the transmitting unit and the receiving unit, respectively.

                                                                                                                                          (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-96                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

               Component                Initial   Periodic                                         Method
                                     Acceptance  Frequency

                                                            Operate systems with more than five stations with a minimum of five stations
                                                            operating simultaneously.
                                                            Verify voice quality and clarity.
                                                            Verify directions for the use of the two-way communication system, instructions for
                                                            summoning assistance via the two-way communication system, and written
                                                            identification of the location is posted adjacent to the two-way communication
                                                            system.
                                                            Verify that all remote stations are readily accessible.
                                                            Verify the timed automatic communications capability to connect with a constantly
                                                               attended monitoring location per 24.5.3.4.
                                                            Verify time delay and alarm response for smoke detector circuits identified as

                                                               having alarm verification.
                                                            Verify communications between sending and receiving units under both primary

                                                               and secondary power.
                                                            Verify communications between sending and receiving units under open-circuit

                                                               and short-circuit trouble conditions.
                                                            Verify communications between sending and receiving units in all directions where

                                                               multiple communications pathways are provided.
                                                            If redundant central control equipment is provided, verify switchover and all

                                                               required functions and operations of secondary control equipment.
                                                            Verify all system functions and features in accordance with manufacturer's

                                                               published instructions.
       Y (2) Multiplex systems
26. Special procedures
SE ONL 27. Supervising station alarm systems(1) Alarm verificationXAnnually
                                                 Annually
                                     X

       U (1) All equipment
       -- receiving equipment
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UAL (2) Digital alarm communicatorXMonthlyPerform tests on all system functions and features in accordance with the
                                                 Monthly       equipment manufacturer's published instructions for correct operation in
       IVID (3) Digital alarm radio receiver     Monthly       conformance with the applicable sections of Chapter 26.

                                                 Monthly    Actuate initiating device and verify receipt of the correct initiating device signal at
                                                               the supervising station within 90 seconds. Upon completion of the test, restore
                                                               the system to its functional operating condition.

                                                            If test jacks are used, perform the first and last tests without the use of the test jack.
                                                            Disconnect each transmission means in turn from the DACR, and verify audible

                                                               and visual annunciation of a trouble signal in the supervising station.
                                                            Cause a signal to be transmitted on each individual incoming DACR line (path) at

                                                               least once every 6 hours (24 hours for DACTs installed prior to adoption of the
                                                               2013 edition of NFPA 72). Verify receipt of these signals.
                                                            Cause the following conditions of all DARRs on all subsidiary and repeater station
                                                               receiving equipment. Verify receipt at the supervising station of correct signals
                                                               for each of the following conditions:
                                                            (1) AC power failure of the radio equipment
                                                            (2) Receiver malfunction
                                                            (3) Antenna and interconnecting cable failure
                                                            (4) Indication of automatic switchover of the DARR
                                                            (5) Data transmission line failure between the DARR and the supervising or
                                                               subsidiary station
                                                            Test and record the current on each circuit at each supervising and subsidiary
                                                               station under the following conditions:
                                                            (1) During functional operation
                                                            (2) On each side of the circuit with the receiving equipment conditioned for an
                                                               open circuit
                                                            Cause a single break or ground condition on each transmission channel. If such a
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} receiver (DACR)X

FOR IND (4) McCulloh systems(DARR)   X

                                     X

                                                            fault prevents the functioning of the circuit, verify receipt of a trouble signal.
                                                            Cause each of the following conditions at each of the supervising or subsidiary
                                                            stations and all repeater station radio transmitting and receiving equipment;
                                                            verify receipt of correct signals at the supervising station:
                                                            (1) RF transmitter in use (radiating)
                                                            (2) AC power failure supplying the radio equipment
                                                            (3) RF receiver malfunction
                                                            (4) Indication of automatic switchover
       (5) Radio alarm supervising   X           Monthly    Cause each of the following conditions at each of the supervising or subsidiary
       station receiver (RASSR) and                         stations and all repeater station radio transmitting and receiving equipment;
       radio alarm repeater station                         verify receipt of correct signals at the supervising station:
       receiver (RARSR)
                                                            (1) AC power failure supplying the radio equipment
                                                            (2) RF receiver malfunction
                                                            (3) Indication of automatic switchover, if applicable

                                                                                                                           (continues)

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                      INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                                 72-97

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

         Component                    Initial   Periodic                                         Method
                                   Acceptance  Frequency

(6) Private microwave radio        X           Monthly    Cause each of the following conditions at each of the supervising or subsidiary
systems                                                   stations and all repeater station radio transmitting and receiving equipment;
                                                          verify receipt of correct signals at the supervising station:
                                                          (1) RF transmitter in use (radiating)
                                                          (2) AC power failure supplying the radio equipment
                                                          (3) RF receiver malfunction
                                                          (4) Indication of automatic switchover
(7) Performance-based              X           Monthly    Perform tests to ensure the monitoring of integrity of the transmission technology
technologies                                              and technology path.
                                                          Where a single communications path is used, disconnect the communication
                                                          path. Verify that failure of the path is annunciated at the supervising station
                                                          within 60 minutes of the failure (within 5 minutes for communication

                                                          Y equipment installed prior to adoption of the 2013 edition of NFPA 72). Restore

                                                          the communication path.

                                                          L Where multiple communication paths are used, disconnect both

                                                          communication paths and confirm that failure of the path is annunciated at the

                                                          N supervising station within not more than 6 hours of the failure (within 24 hours

                                                          for communication equipment installed prior to adoption of the 2013 edition of
                                                          NFPA 72). Restore both communication paths.
O 28. Public emergency alarm reporting
E (1) Publicly accessible alarm box
system transmission equipment      X                      S conditions. If the device is equipped for open circuit operation (ground return),
                                               Semiannually Actuate publicly accessible initiating device(s) and verify receipt of not less than
                                                          three complete rounds of signal impulses. Perform this test under normal circuit
                                                          U initiating device connected to that circuit. Verify receipt of not less than three
                                                          test it in this condition as one of the semiannual tests.
L (3) Master box                               Annually
(2) Auxiliary box                  X                      Test each initiating circuit of the auxiliary box by actuation of a protected premises

                                                          complete rounds of signal impulses.
A (b) Auxiliary operation
(a) Manual operation               X           Semiannually Perform the tests prescribed for 28(a).
{C56A4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 29. Low-power radio (wireless systems)XAnnuallyPerform the tests prescribed for 28(b).

                                   X           N/A        The following procedures describe additional acceptance and reacceptance test
                                                             methods to verify wireless protection system operation:
    30. Mass notification systems
            (1) Functions                                 (1) Use the manufacturer's published instructions and the as-built drawings
                                                             provided by the system supplier to verify correct operation after the initial testing
FOR (2) Fuses                                                phase has been performed by the supplier or by the supplier's designated
                                                             representative.

                                                          (2) Starting from the functional operating condition, initialize the system in
                                                             accordance with the manufacturer's published instructions. Confirm the
                                                             alternative communications path exists between the wireless control unit and
                                                             peripheral devices used to establish initiation, indication, control, and
                                                             annunciation. Test the system for both alarm and trouble conditions.

                                                          (3) Check batteries for all components in the system monthly unless the control
                                                             unit checks all batteries and all components daily.

                                   X           Annually   At a minimum, test control equipment to verify correct receipt of alarm,
                                                          supervisory, and trouble signals (inputs); operation of evacuation signals and
                                                          auxiliary functions (outputs); circuit supervision, including detection of open
                                                          circuits and ground faults; and power supply supervision for detection of loss of
                                                          ac power and disconnection of secondary batteries.
                                   X           Annually   Verify the rating and supervision.
(3) Interfaced equipment           X           Annually   Verify integrity of single or multiple circuits providing interface between two or
                                                          more control units. Test interfaced equipment connections by operating or
                                                          simulating operation of the equipment being supervised. Verify signals required
                                                          to be transmitted at the control unit.
(4) Lamps and LEDs                 X           Annually   Illuminate lamps and LEDs.
(5) Primary (main) power supply    X           Annually   Disconnect all secondary (standby) power and test under maximum load,
                                                          including all alarm appliances requiring simultaneous operation. Reconnect all
                                                          secondary (standby) power at end of test. For redundant power supplies, test
                                                          each separately.
(6) Audible textual notification   X           Annually   Measure sound pressure level with a sound level meter meeting ANSI S1.4a,
appliances (loudspeakers and                              Specifications for Sound Level Meters, Type 2 requirements. Measure and record
other appliances to convey voice                          levels throughout protected area. Set the sound level meter in accordance with
messages)                                                 ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible Emergency Evacuation Signal,
                                                          using the time-weighted characteristic F (FAST). Record the maximum output
                                                          when the audible emergency evacuation signal is on.
                                                          Verify audible information to be distinguishable and understandable.

                                                                                                                                    (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-98                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 14.4.3.2 Continued

                   Component                 Initial          Periodic                                   Method
                                          Acceptance         Frequency

       (7) Visual                             X              Annually   Perform test in accordance with manufacturer's published instructions. Verify
                                                                        appliance locations to be per approved layout and confirm that no floor plan
                                                                        changes affect the approved layout. Verify the candela rating or method of
                                                                        candela control marking on each visual appliance and rating when reported by
                                                                        the FACU agrees with the approved drawings. Confirm that each appliance
                                                                        flashes.
       (8) Control unit functions and no      X              Annually   Review event log file and verify that the correct events were logged. Review system
       diagnostic failures are indicated                                diagnostic log file; correct deficiencies noted in file. Delete unneeded log files.
                                                                        Delete unneeded error files. Verify that sufficient free disk space is available.
                                                                           Verify unobstructed flow of cooling air is available. Change/clean filters, cooling
                                                                           fans, and intake vents.
                                                                        Power down the central control unit computer and restart it.
                                                                        If remote control software is loaded onto the system, verify that it is disabled to
                                                                           prevent unauthorized system access.
                                                                        Send out an alert to a diverse set of predesignated receiving devices and confirm
                                                                           receipt. Include at least one of each type of receiving device.
                                                                        Make full system software backup. Rotate backups based on accepted practice at
                                                                           site.
                                                                        Disconnect ac power. Verify the ac power failure alarm status on central control
                                                                           equipment. With ac power disconnected, verify battery voltage under load.
                                                                        Check forward/reflected radio power is within specifications.
                                                                        Check forward/reflected radio power is within specifications. Verify solid electrical
                                                                           connections with no observable corrosion.
                                                                        Verify proper operation and mounting is not compromised.
       Y (10) Control unit security
       L (11) Audible/visual functional test
       (9) Control unit reset                 X              Annually
                                              X              Annually
                                                             Annually
       N (12) Software backup                 X              Annually
                                                             Annually
       O (14) Wireless signals                X              Annually
                                                             Annually
       (13) Secondary power test              X              Annually
       E (16) Transceivers
                                              X
S aSome transmission equipment (such as, but not limited to, cable modems, fiber-optic interface nodes, and VoIP interfaces) are typically powered byX
       (15) Antenna

U ensure that the testing authority verifies full secondary (standby) power as required by Chapter 10. Additionally, refer to Table 14.4.3.2, items 7X

the building's electrical system using a secondary (standby) power supply that does not meet the requirements of this Code. This is intended to
through 9, for secondary (standby) power supply testing.

L bThe automatic transmission of the check-in (handshake) signal can take up to 60 minutes to occur.

cSee Table 14.4.3.2, Item 4(1) for the testing of transmission equipment.
A dThe battery tests in Table 14.4.3.2 Item 9 are based on VRLA batteries and it is the intent that the tests specified in (1) through (4) be performed in
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Testing, and Replacement of Vented Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary Applications, for vented lead-acid batteries, and IEEE 1106, Recommended Practice for
ID eExample: 4000 mAh × 125 = 160 mA charging current at 77°F (25°C).

fIf the charger is adjustable, adjust the output voltage to 2.265 volts per cell ±0.015 volts at 77°F (25°C) or as specified by the alarm equipment
order. For other secondary battery types, refer to the battery manufacturer's published instructions or IEEE 450, Recommended Practice for Maintenance,
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Installation, Maintenance, Testing, and Replacement of Vented Nickel-Cadmium Batteries for Stationary Applications, for nickel-cadmium batteries.
IV manufacturer.
D iThe voltmeter sensitivity has been changed from 1000 ohms per volt to 100 ohms per volt so that the false ground readings (caused by induced
gSee A.14.4.3.2 Item 9(4). A load test per Item 9(5) is permitted in lieu of an ohmic test.
hSee A.14.4.3.2 Item 9(5).
voltages) are minimized.

IN jInitiating devices such as smoke detectors used for elevator recall, closing dampers, or releasing doors held in the open position that are permitted by
R actuated by the presence of external heat, which causes a solder element in the link to fuse, or by an electric thermal device, which, when energized,
the Code (see9.6.3 of NFPA 101) to initiate supervisory signals at the fire alarm control unit (FACU) should be tested at the same frequency (annual) as

those devices when they are generating an alarm signal. They are not supervisory devices, but they initiate a supervisory signal at the FACU.
kFusible thermal link detectors are commonly used to close fire doors and fire dampers electrically connected to the fire alarm control unit. They are
generates heat within the body of the link, causing the link to fuse and separate.

O lNote, it is customary for the manufacturer of the smoke detector to test a particular product from an aerosol provider to determine acceptability for
Fuse in smoke entry testing of their smoke detector/smoke alarm. Magnets are not acceptable for smoke entry tests.
m There are some detectors that use magnets as a manufacturer's calibrated sensitivity test instrument.
nFor example, it might not be possible to individually test the heat sensor in a thermally enhanced smoke detector.
oManufacturer's published instructions should be consulted to ensure a proper operational test. No suppression gas or agent is expected to be

discharged during the test of the solenoid. See Test Plan of 14.2.10.
pA monitor module installed on an interface device is not considered a supervisory device and therefore not subject to the quarterly testing frequency

requirement. Test frequencies for interface devices should be in accordance with the applicable standard. For example, fire pump controller alarms

such as phase reversal are required to be tested annually. If a monitor module is installed to identify phase reversal on the fire alarm control unit, it is

not necessary to test for phase reversal four times a year.
qChapter 18 would require 15 dB over average ambient sound for public mode spaces. Sometimes the ambient sound levels are different from what

the design was based upon. Private operating mode would require 10 dB over average ambient at the location of the device.
rWhere building, system, or occupancy changes have been observed, the owner should be notified of the changes. New devices might need to be

installed and tested per the initial acceptance testing criteria.
sSee A.14.4.3.2 and Table 14.4.3.2, Item 24.

2019 Edition                      Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                      INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE                                                               72-99

14.4.4.3.3.2 In zones or in areas where nuisance alarms show                      14.4.5.5 Alarms and connected appliances shall be replaced
any increase over the previous year, calibration tests shall be                   when they fail to respond to operability tests.
performed.
                                                                                  14.4.5.6 Smoke alarms shall not remain in service longer than
14.4.4.3.4 Unless otherwise permitted by 14.4.4.3.5, smoke                        10 years from the date of manufacture, unless otherwise provi-
detectors found to have a sensitivity outside the listed and                      ded by the manufacturer's published instructions.
marked sensitivity range shall be cleaned and recalibrated or
be replaced.                                                                      N 14.4.5.7 Carbon monoxide alarms shall be replaced when
                                                                                     either the end-of-life signal is actuated or the manufacturer's
14.4.4.3.5 Smoke detectors listed as field adjustable shall be                    replacement date is reached.
permitted to either be adjusted within the listed and marked
sensitivity range, cleaned, and recalibrated, or be replaced.                     14.4.5.8 Combination smoke/carbon monoxide alarms shall
                                                                                  be replaced when the end-of-life signal actuates or 10 years
   14.4.4.3.6 The detector sensitivity shall not be tested or meas-                  from the date of manufacture, whichever comes first, unless
   ured using any device that administers an unmeasured concen-                      otherwise provided by the manufacturer's published instruc-
   tration of smoke or other aerosol into the detector or smoke                      tions.
   alarm.                                                                            14.4.5.9 Where batteries are used as a source of energy for
                                                                                     alarms, the batteries shall be replaced in accordance with the
LY 14.4.4.4 Test frequency of interfaced equipment shall be the                      alarm equipment manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                                                     14.4.6 Household Fire Alarm Systems. (SIG-HOU)
   same as specified by the applicable NFPA standards for the                      14.4.6.1 Household alarm systems shall be inspected, tested,
                                                                                     and maintained at least annually according to Table 14.3.1,
N equipment being supervised.                                                        Table 14.4.3.2, and the manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                                                  N 14.4.6.2 The responsibility for inspection, testing, and mainte-
   14.4.4.5 Restorable fixed-temperature, spot-type heat detec-                      nance of smoke alarms and connected appliances shall be in
                                                                                     accordance with 14.2.3.
O tors shall be tested in accordance with 14.4.4.5.1 through                      N 14.4.6.3* Notwithstanding other requirements of 14.2.3, the
                                                                                     occupant of a dwelling unit shall be deemed qualified to
   14.4.4.5.4.                                                                       perform inspection, testing, and maintenance on a household
                                                                                     alarm system protecting that dwelling unit when provided with
E 14.4.4.5.1 Two or more detectors shall be tested on each                           information and/or training from the manufacturer or a
                                                                                     manufacturer's certified representative.
   initiating circuit annually.                                                   N 14.4.6.4 The installing contractor shall be required to provide
                                                                                     the information in 14.4.6.3in writing to the customer upon
S 14.4.4.5.2 Different detectors shall be tested each year.                          completion of the system installation.
U 14.4.4.5.3 Test records shall be kept by the building owner                     N 14.4.6.5 Carbon monoxide detectors shall be replaced when
                                                                                     the end-of-life signal is actuated, the manufacturer's replace-
   specifying which detectors have been tested.                                      ment date is reached, or when they fail to respond to operabil-
                                                                                     ity tests.
L 14.4.4.5.4 Within 5 years, each detector shall have been                         14.4.6.6 Maintenance of household alarm systems shall be
A tested.                                                                            conducted according to the manufacturer's published instruc-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U N 14.4.4.5.5 Carbon monoxide apparatus that require resetting    tions.
                                                                                     14.4.7 Circuits from Central Station. Circuits extending from
   to maintain normal operation shall be restored to normal as                       the central station that have had no signal activity in the
                                                                                     preceding 24 hours shall be tested at intervals of not more than
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} promptly as possible after each test and alarm and kept in   24 hours.

   normal condition for operation. All test signals received shall
   be recorded to indicate date and time.

IV 14.4.4.6* Circuit and pathway testing of each monitored

   circuit or pathway shall be conducted with initial acceptance or

D reacceptance testing to verify signals are indicated at the

   control unit for each of the abnormal conditions specified in

IN Sections 23.5 through 23.7.

   14.4.5 Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms. (SIG-HOU)
 14.4.5.1 Single- and multiple-station alarms and connected

R appliances shall be inspected, tested, and maintained in

   accordance with Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2, and the manufac-

FOturer's published instructions.
14.4.5.2 Alarms and connected appliances shall be inspected                       N 14.4.8 Household Carbon Monoxide Detection Systems.
and tested at least monthly.
                                                                                  N 14.4.8.1 Testing of Household Carbon Monoxide Detection
14.4.5.3* The responsibility for inspection, testing, and main-                      Systems.
tenance of smoke alarms and connected appliances shall be in
accordance with 14.2.3.                                                           N 14.4.8.1.1 Household carbon monoxide detection systems
                                                                                  shall be tested by a qualified service technician at least every 3
N 14.4.5.4* Notwithstanding other requirements of 14.2.3, the                     years according to the methods in line 1 of Table 14.4.3.2.
   occupant of a dwelling unit shall be deemed qualified to
perform inspection, testing, and maintenance on single- and N 14.4.8.1.2 Household carbon monoxide detection systems
multiple-station alarms protecting that dwelling unit when                        shall be tested in accordance with the manufacturer's
provided with information from the manufacturer or a manu-                        published instructions.
facturer's certified representative.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-100                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N 14.4.8.1.3* Notwithstanding other requirements of 14.2.3.6,                           14.5.6 When the retransmission means is the public-switched
the occupant of a dwelling unit shall be deemed qualified to                            telephone network, testing shall be permitted at weekly inter-
perform inspection, testing, and maintenance on an alarm                                vals to confirm its operation to each communications center.
system protecting that dwelling unit when provided with infor-
mation and training from the manufacturer or a manufactur-                              14.5.7 As a part of the testing required in 14.5.5, the retrans-
er's certified representative.                                                          mission signal and the time and date of the retransmission shall
                                                                                        be recorded in the central station.
14.4.9 Public Emergency Alarm Reporting Systems.
                                                                                        14.6 Records.
14.4.9.1 Emergency power sources other than batteries shall
be tested at least weekly in accordance with 14.4.9.1.1 and                             14.6.1* Permanent Records. After successful completion of
14.4.9.1.2.                                                                             acceptance tests approved by the authority having jurisdiction,
                                                                                        the requirements in 14.6.1.1 through 14.6.1.3 shall apply.
14.4.9.1.1 Testing shall include operation of the power source
to supply the system for a continuous period of 1 hour.                                 14.6.1.1 A set of reproducible as-built installation drawings,
14.4.9.1.2 Testing shall require simulated failure of the                               operation and maintenance manuals, and a written sequence
                                                                                        of operation shall be provided to the building owner or the
Y normal power source.                                                                  owner's designated representative.
L 14.4.9.2 Unless otherwise permitted by 14.4.9.3, testing facili-                      14.6.1.2* The requirements of 7.5.7 shall apply to site-specific
                                                                                        software.
ties shall be installed at the communications center and each                           14.6.1.3 The system owner shall be responsible for maintain-
                                                                                        ing these records for the life of the system for examination by
N subsidiary communications center, if used.                                            any authority having jurisdiction. Paper or electronic media
O 14.4.9.3 Testing facilities for systems leased from a nonmunici-                      shall be permitted.
                                                                                        14.6.2 Maintenance, Inspection, and Testing Records.
pal organization shall be permitted to be installed at locations                        14.6.2.1 Records shall be retained until the next test and for 1
other than the communications center if approved by the                                 year thereafter.
                                                                                        14.6.2.2 For systems with restorable fixed-temperature, spot-
E authority having jurisdiction.                                                        type heat detectors tested over multiple years, records shall be
S 14.4.10 In-Building Emergency Radio Communication                                     retained for the 5 years of testing and for 1 year thereafter.
                                                                                        14.6.2.3 The records shall be on a medium that will survive
Systems. In-building emergency radio communication systems                              the retention period. Paper or electronic media shall be
                                                                                        permitted.
U shall be inspected and operationally tested in accordance with                        14.6.2.4* A record of all inspections, testing, and mainte-
                                                                                        nance shall be provided in accordance with 7.8.2.
the requirements of NFPA 1221.                                                          14.6.3 Supervising Station Records. For supervising station
                                                                                        alarm systems, records pertaining to signals received at the
L 14.4.11* Voice Intelligibility.                                                       supervising station that result from maintenance, inspection,
A 14.4.11.1 Voice communication using prerecorded messages                              and testing shall be maintained for not less than 12 months.
                                                                                        14.6.3.1 Records shall be permitted to be maintained on
and manual voice announcements shall be verified as being                               either paper or electronic media.
                                                                                        14.6.3.2 Upon request, a hard copy record shall be provided
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U intelligible in accordance with the requirements of 18.4.11.        to the authority having jurisdiction.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 14.4.11.2 Intelligibility shall not be required to be determined14.6.4 Simulated Operation Note. If the operation of a
                                                                                        device, circuit, fire alarm control unit function, or special
through quantitative measurements.                                                      hazard system interface is simulated, it shall be noted on the

IV 14.4.11.3 Quantitative measurements as described in Annex D

shall be permitted but shall not be required.
14.5 Maintenance.

D 14.5.1 System equipment shall be maintained in accordance
IN with the manufacturer's published instructions.

14.5.2 The frequency of maintenance of system equipment
shall depend on the type of equipment and the local ambient

R conditions.
O 14.5.3 The frequency of cleaning of system equipment shall

depend on the type of equipment and the local ambient condi-

Ftions.
14.5.4 All apparatus requiring rewinding or resetting to main-                          inspection/test form that the operation was simulated.

tain normal operation shall be rewound or reset as promptly as
possible after each test and alarm.                                                                    Chapter 15 Reserved

14.5.5 Unless otherwise permitted by 14.5.6, the retransmis-                                           Chapter 16 Reserved
sion means as defined in Section 26.3 shall be tested at inter-
vals of not more than 12 hours.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    INITIATING DEVICES                                                          72-101

                     Chapter 17 Initiating Devices                     · 17.4.3 Initiating devices shall be installed in a manner that
17.1 Application.                                                        provides accessibility for periodic inspection, testing, and main-
                                                                         tenance.

 17.1.1* The performance, selection, use, and location of auto-        17.4.4 Initiating devices shall be installed in all areas, compart-
   matic or manual initiating devices shall comply with the mini-      ments, or locations where required by other governing laws,
   mum requirements of this chapter.                                   codes, or standards.

17.1.2* This chapter establishes the minimum installation              17.4.5* Duplicate terminals, leads, or connectors that provide
criteria for initiating devices required by other governing laws,      for the connection of installation wiring shall be provided on
codes, standards, or sections of this document. This chapter           each initiating device for the express purpose of connecting
does not, by itself, require the installation of initiating devices.   into the fire alarm system to monitor the integrity of the signal-
                                                                          ing and power wiring unless the initiating devices are connec-
   17.1.3 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 12, 21, 23, and 24          ted to a system that provides the required monitoring.
   shall also apply unless they are in conflict with this chapter.      17.4.6 Where detectors are installed in concealed locations
   17.1.4 The requirements of Chapter 14 shall apply.                     more than 10 ft (3.0 m) above the finished floor or in arrange-
                                                                          ments where the detector's alarm or supervisory indicator is
Y 17.1.5 The requirements of single- and multiple-station alarms          not visible to responding personnel, the detectors shall be
L and household fire alarm systems shall be determined in                 provided with remote alarm or supervisory indication in a loca-
                                                                          tion acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction.
   accordance with Chapter 29.                                            17.4.6.1* If a remote alarm indicator is provided, the location
                                                                          of the detector and the area protected by the detector shall be
N 17.1.6 The material in this chapter shall be applied by persons         prominently indicated at the remote alarm indicator by a
O knowledgeable in the application of fire detection and fire             permanently attached placard or by other approved means.
                                                                          17.4.6.2 Remote alarm or supervisory indicators shall be
   alarm systems and services.                                            installed in an accessible location and shall be clearly labeled to
                                                                          indicate both their function and any device or equipment asso-
E 17.1.7 The interconnection of initiating devices with control           ciated with each detector.
                                                                          17.4.6.3 Detectors installed in concealed locations where the
   equipment configurations and power supplies, or with output            specific detector alarm or supervisory signal is indicated at the
                                                                          control unit (and on the drawings with its specific location and
S systems responding to external actuation, shall be as detailed          functions) shall not be required to be provided with remote
                                                                          alarm indicators as specified in 17.4.6.
   elsewhere in this Code or in other governing laws, codes, or           17.4.7* If the intent is to initiate action when smoke/fire
                                                                          threatens a specific object or space, the detector shall be
U standards.                                                              permitted to be installed in close proximity to that object or
                                                                          space.
   17.2 Purpose. Automatic and manual initiating devices shall            17.5 Requirements for Smoke and Heat Detectors.
                                                                          17.5.1 Recessed Mounting. Unless tested and listed for
L contribute to life safety, fire protection, and property conserva-      recessed mounting, detectors shall not be recessed into the
                                                                          mounting surface.
   tion by providing a reliable means to signal other equipment           17.5.2* Partitions. Where partitions extend to within
                                                                          15 percent of the ceiling height, the spaces separated by the
A arranged to monitor the initiating devices and to initiate a            partitions shall be considered as separate rooms.
                                                                          17.5.3* Detector Coverage.
   response to those signals.                                             17.5.3.1* Total (Complete) Coverage. Where required by

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.3* Performance-Based Design.
ID 17.3.1 Performance-based designs submitted to the authority

   having jurisdiction for review and approval shall include docu-

IV mentation, in an approved format, of each performance objec-

   tive and applicable scenario, together with any calculations,
   modeling, or other technical substantiation used in establish-

D ing the proposed design's fire and life safety performance.
IN 17.3.2 The authority having jurisdiction shall determine

   whether such identified performance objectives are appropri-
   ate and have been met.

R 17.3.3 The authority having jurisdiction shall approve modifi-

   cations to or variations from the approved design or design

Obasis in advance.
F17.4 General Requirements.
17.4.1 The requirements of 17.4.2 through 17.4.7 shall apply           other governing laws, codes, or standards, and unless otherwise
to all initiating devices.                                             modified by 17.5.3.1.1 through 17.5.3.1.5, total coverage of a
                                                                       building or a portion thereof, shall include all rooms, halls,
17.4.2 Mechanical Protection.                                          storage areas, basements, attics, lofts, spaces above suspended

N 17.4.2.1 Initiating devices subject to mechanical damage shall       ceilings, and other subdivisions and accessible spaces.

be protected.                                                          17.5.3.1.1 Where inaccessible areas are constructed of or

N 17.4.2.2 If guards or covers are employed, they shall be listed      contain combustible material, unless otherwise specified in
   for use with the initiating device.                                 17.5.3.1.2, they shall be made accessible and shall be protected
                                                                       by a detector(s).
N 17.4.2.3* The protection shall not prevent the initiating
   device from achieving the objectives of the system by adversely     17.5.3.1.2 Detectors shall not be required in combustible
   affecting the use, operation, or performance of the initiating      blind spaces if any of the following conditions exist:

device.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-102        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(1) Where the ceiling is attached directly to the underside of                     17.6 Heat-Sensing Fire Detectors.
the supporting beams of a combustible roof or floor
deck.                                                                              17.6.1 General.

(2) Where the concealed space is entirely filled with a                            17.6.1.1* The heat detection design documentation shall state
       noncombustible insulation. (In solid joist construction,                    the required performance objective of the system.
       the insulation shall be required to fill only the space from                17.6.1.2 Designs not in accordance with 17.6.1.3 shall be
       the ceiling to the bottom edge of the joist of the roof or                  deemed prescriptive designs and shall be designed in accord-
       floor deck.)                                                                ance with the prescriptive requirements of this chapter.

(3) Where there are small concealed spaces over rooms,
       provided that any space in question does not exceed
       50 ft2 (4.6 m2) in area.                                                    17.6.1.3* Performance-based designs shall be executed in
(4) In spaces formed by sets of facing studs or solid joists in                    accordance with Section 17.3.

       walls, floors, or ceilings, where the distance between the                  N 17.6.1.4 Heat sensing fire detectors shall be listed in accord-
       facing studs or solid joists is less than 6 in. (150 mm).                      ance with applicable standards such as ANSI/UL 521, Standard
17.5.3.1.3 Detectors shall not be required below open grid                            for Heat Detectors for Fire Protective Signaling Systems.
                                                                                      17.6.1.5* Spot-type heat detectors shall include in their instal-
Y ceilings if all of the following conditions exist:                                  lation instructions, technical data, and listing documentation
L (1) Openings of the grid are 14 in. (6.4 mm) or larger in the                       the operating temperature and response time index (RTI) as
                                                                                      determined by the organization listing the device.
       least dimension.                                                               17.6.2 Temperature.

N (2) Thickness of the material does not exceed the least                           17.6.2.1 Classification. Heat-sensing fire detectors of the
       dimension.                                                                     fixed-temperature or rate-compensated, spot type shall be clas-
                                                                                      sified as to the temperature of operation in accordance with
O (3) Openings constitute at least 70 percent of the area of the                      Table 17.6.2.1.
       ceiling material.                                                              17.6.2.2 Marking.
                                                                                      17.6.2.2.1 Color Coding.
E 17.5.3.1.4* Where concealed accessible spaces above suspen-                         17.6.2.2.1.1 Heat-sensing fire detectors of the fixed-
                                                                                      temperature or rate-compensated, spot type shall be marked
ded ceilings are used as a return air plenum meeting the                              with a color code in accordance with Table 17.6.2.1.
                                                                                      17.6.2.2.1.2 If the overall color of a heat-sensing fire detector
S requirements of NFPA 90A detection shall be provided in one                         is the same as the color code marking required for that detec-
                                                                                      tor, one of the following arrangements, applied in a contrasting
of the following means:                                                               color and visible after installation, shall be employed:
                                                                                      (1) Ring on the surface of the detector
U (1) Smoke detection shall be provided in accordance with                            (2) Temperature rating in numerals at least 38 in. (9.5 mm)
       17.7.4.2, or                                                                           high
                                                                                      17.6.2.2.2 Operating Temperature.
L (2) Smoke detection shall be provided at each connection                            17.6.2.2.2.1 Heat-sensing fire detectors shall be marked with
       from the return air plenum to the central air-handling                         their listed operating temperature.
 A system.
                                                                                    Table 17.6.2.1 Temperature Classification and Color Code for
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 17.5.3.1.5 Detectors shall not be required underneath open        Heat-Sensing Fire Detectors

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} loading docks or platforms and their covers and for accessible

ID underfloor spaces if all of the following conditions exist:

(1) Space is not accessible for storage purposes or entrance

 IV of unauthorized persons and is protected against the

       accumulation of windborne debris.
(2) Space contains no equipment such as steam pipes, elec-

 D tric wiring, shafting, or conveyors.

(3) Floor over the space is tight.

IN (4) No flammable liquids are processed, handled, or stored
       on the floor above.
17.5.3.2* Partial or Selective Coverage. Where other govern-

R ing laws, codes, or standards require the protection of selected

areas only, the specified areas shall be protected in accordance

O with this Code.
F17.5.3.3* Nonrequired Coverage.
17.5.3.3.1 Detection installed for reasons of achieving specific                                                         Maximum
fire safety objectives, but not required by any laws, codes, or                    Temperature      Temperature Rating     Ceiling   Color
standards, shall meet all of the requirements of this Code, with                   Classification            Range                   Code
the exception of the prescriptive spacing criteria of Chapter 17.                                                       Temperature
                                                                                                    °F  °C                °F °C

17.5.3.3.2 Where nonrequired detectors are installed for                           Low              100­134 38­56       80 28 Uncolored
achieving specific fire safety objectives, additional detectors not                Ordinary         135­174 57­79 115 47 Uncolored
necessary to achieve the objectives shall not be required.                         Intermediate 175­249 80­121 155 69 White
                                                                                   High             250­324 122­162 230 111 Blue
                                                                                   Extra high       325­399 163­204 305 152 Red
                                                                                   Very extra high 400­499 205­259 380 194 Green
                                                                                   Ultra high       500­575 260­302 480 249 Orange

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                              INITIATING DEVICES                                                                      72-103

   17.6.2.2.2.2 Heat-sensing fire detectors where the alarm                          detectors at right angles to the direction of beam travel shall be
   threshold is field adjustable shall be marked with the tempera-                   not more than two-thirds of the listed spacing.
   ture range.                                                                       17.6.3.3.1.3 Where the beams project more than 18 in.
   17.6.2.2.2.3 Spot-type heat detectors shall also be marked with                   (460 mm) below the ceiling and are more than 8 ft (2.4 m) on
   their RTI.                                                                        center, each bay formed by the beams shall be treated as a sepa-
   17.6.2.3* Ambient Ceiling Temperature.                                            rate area.
N 17.6.2.3.1 Detectors having fixed-temperature or rate-                             17.6.3.3.2 Location. Where beams are less than 12 in.
   compensated elements shall be selected in accordance with                         (300 mm) in depth and less than 8 ft (2.4 m) on center, detec-
   Table 17.6.2.1 for the maximum expected ambient ceiling                           tors shall be permitted to be installed on the bottom of beams.
   temperature.                                                                      17.6.3.4* Sloping Ceilings (Peaked and Shed).

N 17.6.2.3.2 The temperature rating of the detector shall be at                         17.6.3.4.1 Spacing.
   least 20°F (11°C) above the maximum expected temperature at                          17.6.3.4.1.1 Ceiling Slope Less Than 30 Degrees. For a ceiling
   the ceiling.                                                                         slope of less than 30 degrees, all detectors shall be spaced using
                                                                                        the height at the peak.
Y 17.6.3 Location and Spacing.                                                          17.6.3.4.1.2 Ceiling Slopes of 30 Degrees or Greater. All
L 17.6.3.1 Smooth Ceiling.                                                              detectors, other than those located in the peak, shall be spaced
N 17.6.3.1.1* Spacing. One of the following requirements shall                          using the average slope height or the height of the peak.
                                                                                        17.6.3.4.1.3 Spacing shall be measured along a horizontal
   apply:                                                                               projection of the ceiling in accordance with the type of ceiling
                                                                                        construction.
O (1) The distance between detectors shall not exceed their                             17.6.3.4.2 Location.
          listed spacing, and there shall be detectors within a                         17.6.3.4.2.1 A row of detectors shall first be located at or
  E distance of one-half the listed spacing, measured at right                          within 36 in. (910 mm) of the peak of the ceiling.
          angles from all walls or partitions extending upward to                       17.6.3.4.2.2 Additional detectors shall be located as deter-
  S within the top 15 percent of the ceiling height.                                    mined in 17.6.3.4.1.
   (2) All points on the ceiling shall have a detector within a                         17.6.3.5 High Ceilings.
                                                                                        17.6.3.5.1* Unless otherwise modified by 17.6.3.5.2, on ceil-
  U distance equal to or less than 0.7 times the listed spacing                         ings 10 ft to 30 ft (3.0 m to 9.1 m) high, heat detector spacing
                                                                                        shall be reduced in accordance with Table 17.6.3.5.1 prior to
          (0.7S).                                                                       any additional reductions for beams, joists, or slope, where
                                                                                        applicable.
L 17.6.3.1.2 Irregular Areas. For irregularly shaped areas, the                      N 17.6.3.5.2 For line-type electrical conductivity detectors (see
A spacing between detectors shall be permitted to be greater                            3.3.70.11) and pneumatic rate-of-rise tubing heat detectors (see
                                                                                        3.3.70.15), which rely on the integration effect, the derating
   than the listed spacing, provided that the maximum spacing                           required by Table 17.6.3.5.1 shall not apply, and the manufac-
                                                                                        turer's published instructions shall be followed for appropriate
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U from a detector to the farthest point of a sidewall or corner       alarm point and spacing.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} within its zone of protection is not greater than 0.7 times the

ID listed spacing.

   17.6.3.1.3 Location.

IV 17.6.3.1.3.1* Unless otherwise modified by 17.6.3.2.2,

   17.6.3.3.2, or 17.6.3.7, spot-type heat-sensing fire detectors shall

D be located on the ceiling not less than 4 in. (100 mm) from the

   sidewall or on the sidewalls between 4 in. and 12 in. (100 mm

IN and 300 mm) from the ceiling.

   17.6.3.1.3.2 Unless otherwise modified by 17.6.3.2.2,
   17.6.3.3.2, or 17.6.3.7, line-type heat detectors shall be located

R on the ceiling or on the sidewalls not more than 20 in.

   (510 mm) from the ceiling.

O17.6.3.2* Solid Joist Construction.
F17.6.3.2.1 Spacing. The design spacing of heat detectors,

   where measured at right angles to the solid joists, shall not
   exceed 50 percent of the listed spacing.
                                                                     Table 17.6.3.5.1 Heat Detector Spacing Reduction Based on
                                                                       Ceiling Height

                                                                                      Ceiling Height        Up to      Multiply
                                                                                     Greater than (>)  and Including    Listed
                                                                                                                      Spacing by
                                                                                     ft  m             ft        m

17.6.3.2.2 Location. Detectors shall be mounted at the                               0   0             10        3.0  1.00
                                                                                     10  3.0           12        3.7  0.91
bottom of the joists.                                                                12  3.7           14        4.3  0.84

17.6.3.3* Beam Construction.                                                         14  4.3           16        4.9  0.77

17.6.3.3.1 Spacing.                                                                  16  4.9           18        5.5  0.71
                                                                                     18  5.5           20        6.1  0.64
17.6.3.3.1.1 A ceiling shall be treated as a smooth ceiling if the                   20  6.1           22        6.7  0.58
beams project no more than 4 in. (100 mm) below the ceiling.
                                                                                     22  6.7           24        7.3  0.52
                                                                                     24  7.3           26        7.9  0.46
17.6.3.3.1.2 Where the beams project more than 4 in.                                 26  7.9           28        8.5  0.40
(100 mm) below the ceiling, the spacing of spot-type heat
                                                                                     28  8.5           30        9.1  0.34

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-104                                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

17.6.3.5.3* Spacing Minimum. The minimum spacing of heat                                              17.7.1.12* Protection During Construction.
detectors shall not be required to be less than 0.4 times the
height of the ceiling.                                                                                17.7.1.12.1 Where detectors are installed for signal initiation
                                                                                                      during construction, they shall be cleaned and verified to be
17.6.3.6* Integral Heat Sensors on Combination and Multi-            operating in accordance with the listed sensitivity, or they shall
Sensor Detectors. A heat-sensing detector integrally mounted                                          be replaced prior to the final acceptance test of the system.
on a smoke detector shall be listed for not less than 50 ft
(15.2 m) spacing.                                                                                     17.7.1.12.2 Where detectors are installed but not operational
                                                                                                      during construction, they shall be protected from construction
17.6.3.7 Other Applications. Where a detector is used in an                                           debris, dust, dirt, and damage in accordance with the manufac-
application other than open area protection, the manufactur-                                          turer's recommendations and verified to be operating in
er's published instructions shall be followed.                                                        accordance with the listed sensitivity, or they shall be replaced
                                                                                                      prior to the final acceptance test of the system.
17.6.3.8 Alternative Design Methods. Annex B shall be                                                 17.7.1.12.3 Where detection is not required during construc-
permitted to be used as one alternative design method for                                             tion, detectors shall not be installed until after all other
determining detector spacing.                                                                         construction trades have completed cleanup.
                                                                                                      17.7.2* Sensitivity.
Y 17.7 Smoke-Sensing Fire Detectors.                                                                  17.7.2.1* Smoke detectors shall be marked with their nominal
L 17.7.1 General.                                                                                     production sensitivity and tolerance in percent per foot
N 17.7.1.1* The smoke detection design documentation shall                                            (percent per meter) obscuration, as required by the listing.
                                                                                                      17.7.2.2 Spot-type smoke detectors that have provision for
state the required performance objective of the system.                                               field adjustment of sensitivity via a mechanical means shall have
                                                                                                      an adjustment range of not less than 0.6 percent per foot
O 17.7.1.2* Designs not in accordance with 17.7.1.3 shall be                                          (1.95 percent per meter) obscuration.
                                                                                                      17.7.2.3 If the means of adjustment of sensitivity is on the
deemed prescriptive designs and shall be designed in accord-                                          detector, a method shall be provided to restore the detector to
                                                                                                      its factory calibration.
E ance with the prescriptive requirements of this chapter.                                            17.7.2.4 Detectors that have provision for program-controlled
                                                                                                      adjustment of sensitivity shall be permitted to be marked with
17.7.1.3* Performance-based designs shall be executed in                                              their programmable sensitivity range only.
                                                                                                      17.7.3 Location and Spacing.
S accordance with Section 17.3.                                                                       17.7.3.1* General.
U 17.7.1.4 The prescriptive requirements in this section shall be                                     17.7.3.1.1 The location and spacing of smoke detectors shall
                                                                                                      be based upon the anticipated smoke flows due to the plume
applied only where detectors are installed in ordinary indoor                                         and ceiling jet produced by the anticipated fire, as well as any
                                                                                                      pre-existing ambient airflows that could exist in the protected
L locations.                                                                                          compartment.
                                                                                                      17.7.3.1.2 The design shall account for the contribution of the
17.7.1.5 Where smoke detectors are being installed to control                                         following factors in predicting detector response to the antici-
                                                                                                      pated fires to which the system is intended to respond:
A the spread of smoke, they shall be installed in accordance with                                     (1) Ceiling shape and surface
                                                                                                      (2) Ceiling height
the requirements of 17.7.5.                                                                           (3) Configuration of contents in the protected area
                                                                                                      (4) Combustion characteristics and probable equivalence
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.7.1.6 Smoke detectors shall be installed in all areas where
ID required by other governing laws, codes, or standards or by                                               ratio of the anticipated fires involving the fuel loads
                                                                                                             within the protected area
other parts of this Code.

IV 17.7.1.7 The selection and placement of smoke detectors shall

take into account both the performance characteristics of the
detector and the areas into which the detectors are to be instal-

D led to prevent nuisance and unintentional alarms or improper

operation after installation.

IN 17.7.1.8* Unless specifically designed and listed for the expec-

ted conditions, smoke detectors shall not be installed if any of
the following ambient conditions exist:

R (1) Temperature below 32°F (0°C)
O (2) Temperature above 100°F (38°C)

(3) Relative humidity above 93 percent

F(4) Air velocity greater than 300 ft/min (1.5 m/sec)
N 17.7.1.9* Smoke detectors installed in ducts and other loca-                                        (5) Compartment ventilation
   tions with air velocities greater than 300 ft/min (1.5 m/sec)                                      (6) Ambient temperature, pressure, altitude, humidity, and
                                                                                                      atmosphere
shall be listed for the velocity conditions anticipated and instal-
led in accordance with the manufacturer's published instruc-
tions.                                                                                                17.7.3.1.3 If the intent is to protect against a specific hazard,
                                                                                                      the detector(s) shall be permitted to be installed closer to the
                                                                                                      hazard in a position where the detector can intercept the
17.7.1.10* The location of smoke detectors shall be based on                                          smoke.
an evaluation of potential ambient sources of smoke, moisture,
dust, or fumes, and electrical or mechanical influences, to
minimize nuisance alarms.                                                                             17.7.3.2* Spot-Type Smoke Detectors.

17.7.1.11* The effect of stratification below the ceiling shall                                       17.7.3.2.1* Spot-type smoke detectors shall be located on the
be taken into account. The guidelines in Annex B shall be                                             ceiling or, if on a sidewall, between the ceiling and 12 in.
permitted to be used.                                                                                 (300 mm) down from the ceiling to the top of the detector.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 INITIATING DEVICES                                                                              72-105

17.7.3.2.2* To minimize dust contamination, smoke detectors,                                       (b) For beam depths greater than or equal to
where installed under raised floors, shall be mounted only in                                      10 percent of the ceiling height (0.1 H), spacing
an orientation for which they have been listed.                                                    shall be in accordance with 17.7.3.2.4.2(2).
                                                                                                   (4)* For corridors 15 ft (4.6 m) in width or less having ceiling
17.7.3.2.3 On smooth ceilings, spacing for spot-type smoke                                                beams or solid joists perpendicular to the corridor
detectors shall be in accordance with 17.7.3.2.3.1 through                                                length, the following shall apply:
17.7.3.2.3.4.                                                                                             (a) Smooth ceiling spacing shall be permitted.
17.7.3.2.3.1* In the absence of specific performance-based                                                (b) Location of spot-type smoke detectors shall be
design criteria, one of the following requirements shall apply:                                                  permitted on ceilings, sidewalls, or the bottom of

(1) The distance between smoke detectors shall not exceed a                                                      beams or solid joists.
       nominal spacing of 30 ft (9.1 m) and there shall be detec-                                  (5) For rooms of 900 ft2 (84 m2) or less, the following shall
       tors within a distance of one-half the nominal spacing,
                                                                                                          apply:

          measured at right angles from all walls or partitions                                           (a) Use of smooth ceiling spacing shall be permitted.
          extending upward to within the top 15 percent of the ceil-                                      (b) Location of spot-type smoke detectors shall be
          ing height.
                                                                                                                 permitted on ceilings or on the bottom of beams.
Y (2)* All points on the ceiling shall have a detector within a
  L distance equal to or less than 0.7 times the nominal 30 ft                                     17.7.3.2.4.3* For sloping ceilings with beams running parallel
                                                                                                   up slope, the following shall apply:
          (9.1 m) spacing (0.7S).                                                                  (1) Spot-type detector(s) shall be located on the ceiling

N 17.7.3.2.3.2 In all cases, the manufacturer's published instruc-                                        within beam pocket(s).
                                                                                                   (2) The ceiling height shall be taken as the average height
   tions shall be followed.
                                                                                                          over slope.
O 17.7.3.2.3.3 Other spacing shall be permitted to be used                                         (3) Spacing shall be measured along a horizontal projection

   depending on ceiling height, different conditions, or response                                         of the ceiling.
                                                                                                   (4) Smooth ceiling spacing shall be permitted within beam
E requirements.
S 17.7.3.2.3.4 For the detection of flaming fires, the guidelines                                         pocket(s) parallel to the beams.
                                                                                                   (5) For beam depths less than or equal to 10 percent of the
   in Annex B shall be permitted to be used.
                                                                                                          ceiling height (0.1 H), spot-type detectors shall be located
U 17.7.3.2.4* For solid joist and beam construction, spacing for                                          with smooth ceiling spacing perpendicular to the beams.
                                                                                                   (6) For beam depths greater than 10 percent of the ceiling
   spot-type smoke detectors shall be in accordance with                                                  height (0.1 H), the following shall apply for spacing
                                                                                                          perpendicular to the beams:
L 17.7.3.2.4.1 through 17.7.3.2.4.6.                                                                      (a) For beam spacing greater than or equal to
A 17.7.3.2.4.1 Solid joists shall be considered equivalent to
                                                                                                                 40 percent of the ceiling height (0.4 H), spot-type
   beams for smoke detector spacing guidelines.                                                                  detectors shall be located in each beam pocket.
                                                                                                          (b) For beam spacing less than 40 percent of the ceiling
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.7.3.2.4.2 For level ceilings, the following shall apply:              height (0.4 H), spot-type detectors shall not be
ID (1) For ceilings with beam depths of less than 10 percent of                                                  required in every beam pocket but shall be spaced
                                                                                                                 not greater than 50 percent of smooth ceiling spac-
          the ceiling height (0.1 H), the following shall apply:                                                 ing.

  IV (a) Smooth ceiling spacing shall be permitted.                                                17.7.3.2.4.4* For sloping ceilings with beams running perpen-
                                                                                                   dicular across slope, the following shall apply:
          (b) Spot-type smoke detectors shall be permitted to be                                   (1) Spot-type detector(s) shall be located at the bottom of the
                  located on ceilings or on the bottom of beams.
                                                                                                          beams.
D (2) For ceilings with beam depths equal to or greater than                                       (2) The ceiling height shall be taken as the average height
          10 percent of the ceiling height (0.1 H), the following
  IN shall apply:                                                                                         over slope.
          (a) Where beam spacing is equal to or greater than                                       (3) Spacing shall be measured along a horizontal projection
                  40 percent of the ceiling height (0.4 H), spot-type
   Rdetectors shall be located on the ceiling in each                                                     of the ceiling.
                  beam pocket.                                                                     (4) Smooth ceiling spacing shall be permitted within beam
 O(b) Where beam spacing is less than 40 percent of the
                  ceiling height (0.4 H), the following shall be permit-

F ted for spot detectors:
              i. Smooth ceiling spacing in the direction paral-                                           pocket(s).
                      lel to the beams and at one-half smooth ceil-                                (5) For beam depths less than or equal to 10 percent of the
                      ing spacing in the direction perpendicular to
                      the beams                                                                           ceiling height (0.1 H), spot-type detectors shall be located
                                                                                                          with smooth ceiling spacing.
              ii. Location of detectors either on the ceiling or                                   (6) For beam depths greater than 10 percent of the ceiling
                      on the bottom of the beams                                                          height (0.1 H), spot-type detectors shall not be required
                                                                                                          to be located closer than (0.4 H) and shall not exceed
(3)* For beam pockets formed by intersecting beams, includ-                                               50 percent of smooth ceiling spacing.
       ing waffle or pan-type ceilings, the following shall apply:
                                                                                                   17.7.3.2.4.5* For sloped ceilings with beam pockets formed by
(a) For beam depths less than 10 percent of the ceiling                                            intersecting beams, the following shall apply:
       height (0.1 H), spacing shall be in accordance with
17.7.3.2.4.2(1).                                                                                   (1) Spot-type detector(s) shall be located at the bottom of the
                                                                                                   beams.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-106                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(2) The ceiling height shall be taken as the average height N 17.7.3.6.1.2 Air sampling­type smoke detectors shall produce
over slope.                                                                         trouble signals if the airflow is outside the manufacturer's
(3) Spacing shall be measured along a horizontal projection                         specified range.
       of the ceiling.
(4) For beam depths less than or equal to 10 percent of the                         N 17.7.3.6.1.3 If provided, atmospheric contaminant filtration
                                                                                       shall be listed for use with the detector and installed and main-
       ceiling height (0.1 H), spot-type detectors shall be spaced                     tained in accordance with the air sampling­type smoke detec-
       with not more than three beams between detectors and                            tor manufacturer's published instructions.
       shall not exceed smooth ceiling spacing.
(5) For beam depths greater than 10 percent of the ceiling N 17.7.3.6.2 Pipe Network.
       height (0.1 H), spot-type detectors shall be spaced with
not more than two beams between detectors, but shall N 17.7.3.6.2.1 Maximum air sample transport time from the
not be required to be spaced closer than (0.4 H), and                               farthest sampling port to the detector shall not exceed
                                                                                       120 seconds.
          shall not exceed 50 percent of smooth ceiling spacing.                    N 17.7.3.6.2.2 Sampling pipe networks shall be designed on the
   17.7.3.2.4.6 For sloped ceilings with solid joists, the detectors
   shall be located on the bottom of the joist.                                        basis of, and shall be supported by, computer-based fluid
                                                                                       dynamics design calculations to ensure required performance.
Y 17.7.3.3* Peaked.                                                                 N 17.7.3.6.2.3 The sampling pipe network design calculations
L N 17.7.3.3.1 Detectors shall first be spaced and located within                      shall include pressure, volumetric flow, and alarm sensitivity at
N 36 in. (910 mm) of the peak, measured horizontally.                                  each sampling port.
                                                                                    N 17.7.3.6.2.4 Software applications for the design of pipe
N 17.7.3.3.2 The number and spacing of additional detectors, if                        networks shall be listed for use with the manufacturer's equip-
                                                                                       ment.
O any, shall be based on the horizontal projection of the ceiling.                  N 17.7.3.6.2.5 Sampling system piping shall be conspicuously
                                                                                       identified as "SMOKE DETECTOR SAMPLING TUBE -- DO
   17.7.3.4* Shed.                                                                     NOT DISTURB," as follows:
                                                                                       (1) At changes in direction or branches of piping
E N 17.7.3.4.1 Detectors shall first be spaced and located within                      (2) At each side of penetrations of walls, floors, or other
S 36 in. (910 mm) of the high side of the ceiling, measured hori-
                                                                                              barriers
   zontally.                                                                           (3) At intervals on piping that provide visibility within the

U N 17.7.3.4.2 The number and spacing of additional detectors, if                             space, but no greater than 20 ft (6.1 m)
L any, shall be based on the horizontal projection of the ceiling.                  N 17.7.3.6.2.6* Sampling ports shall be identified as such.
                                                                                    N 17.7.3.6.2.7* If provided, test ports at the end (most remote
   17.7.3.5 Raised Floors and Suspended Ceilings. Spaces
                                                                                       location) of a pipe run installed in the pipe network solely for
A beneath raised floors and above suspended ceilings shall be                          the purpose of validating consistency in performance (also
                                                                                       referred to as benchmark test points) shall be included in the
   treated as separate rooms for smoke detector spacing purposes.                      design calculations and allowed, but not required, to comply
                                                                                       with the requirements of 17.7.3.6.2.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Detectors installed beneath raised floors or above suspended    N 17.7.3.6.2.8 If the piping and fittings are painted, the painting
                                                                                       shall be performed in accordance with the air sampling­type
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ceilings, or both, including raised floors and suspended ceil-   smoke detector manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                                                    N 17.7.3.6.2.9* Pipe network materials, sizing, and installation
ID ings used for environmental air, shall not be used in lieu of                       shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's published
                                                                                       requirements and suitable for use in the environment in which
   providing detection within the room.                                                they are installed.
                                                                                    N 17.7.3.6.2.10 Where used, capillary tubing shall be sized and
IV 17.7.3.5.1 For raised floors, the following shall apply:

   (1) Detectors installed beneath raised floors shall be spaced

 D in accordance with 17.7.3.1, 17.7.3.1.3, and 17.7.3.2.2.

   (2) Where the area beneath the raised floor is also used for

 IN environmental air, detector spacing shall also conform to

          17.7.4.1 and 17.7.4.2.
   17.7.3.5.2 For suspended ceilings, the following shall apply:

R (1) Detector spacing above suspended ceilings shall conform
          to the requirements of 17.7.3 for the ceiling configura-
 Otion.

F(2) Where detectors are installed in ceilings used for environ-
mental air, detector spacing shall also conform to                                  affixed in accordance with the manufacturer's published
17.7.4.1, 17.7.4.2, and 17.7.4.4.                                                   instructions and computer-based design calculations.

17.7.3.6 Air Sampling­Type Smoke Detector.                                          N 17.7.3.6.3 Installation and Spacing.

N 17.7.3.6.1 General.                                                                  17.7.3.6.3.1* Air sampling pipe network fittings shall be instal-
N 17.7.3.6.1.1* In the absence of specific performance-based                           led air-tight and permanently affixed.
                                                                                    N· 17.7.3.6.3.2 Sampled air shall be exhausted to a lessor or
   design criteria, each sampling port of an air sampling­type                         equal pressure zone. The pressure differential between the
   smoke detector shall be treated as a spot-type smoke detector                       sampled air and detector exhaust shall not exceed the manu-
   for the purpose of location and spacing in accordance with                          facturer's published instructions.
   17.7.3.

                                                                                    N 17.7.3.6.3.3* Supports for sampling pipe shall be in accord-
                                                                                       ance with the air sampling­type smoke detector manufacturer's
                                                                                       published instructions.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          INITIATING DEVICES                                                                                   72-107

N 17.7.3.6.4 Special Applications.                                                                   17.7.4.5 Detectors placed in environmental air ducts or
N 17.7.3.6.4.1 Air Duct Applications.                                                                plenums shall be permitted to be either supervisory or alarm
                                                                                                     initiating devices.

N (A) The air sampling system shall be listed for air duct applica-                                  17.7.5* Smoke Detectors for Control of Smoke Spread.
   tions and shall be installed in accordance with the manufactur-
er's published instructions.                                                                         17.7.5.1* Classifications. Smoke detectors installed and used
                                                                                                     to prevent smoke spread by initiating control of fans, dampers,
N (B) The inlet and exhaust sections of pipe that are installed                                      doors, and other equipment shall be classified in the following
   inside the air duct shall be air-tight and shall exhaust the                                      manner:
   sampled air in accordance with the manufacturer's published                                       (1) Area detectors that are installed in the related smoke
   instructions.                                                                                            compartments
                                                                                                     (2) Detectors that are installed in the air duct systems
N 17.7.3.6.4.2* Electrical Cabinet Applications. For protection
   of cabinets containing electrical equipment, the air sampling
   ports shall be located in the main airflow at the exhaust vents,                                     (3) Video image smoke detection that is installed in related
   downstream of the airflow distribution path, or in accordance                                               smoke compartments

Y with the manufacturer's published instructions.                                                       17.7.5.2* Limitations.
L · 17.7.3.7* Projected Beam­Type Smoke Detectors.                                                      17.7.5.2.1 Detectors that are installed in the air duct system in
N 17.7.3.7.1 Projected beam­type smoke detectors shall be loca-                                         accordance with 17.7.5.1(2) shall not be used as a substitute for
                                                                                                        open area protection.
   ted in accordance with the manufacturer's published instruc-                                         17.7.5.2.2 Where open area protection is required, 17.7.3
                                                                                                        shall apply.
O tions.                                                                                                17.7.5.3* Purposes.
                                                                                                        17.7.5.3.1 To prevent the recirculation of dangerous quanti-
   17.7.3.7.2 The effects of stratification shall be evaluated when                                     ties of smoke, a detector approved for air duct use shall be
                                                                                                        installed on the supply side of air-handling systems as required
E locating the detectors.                                                                               by NFPA 90A and 17.7.5.4.2.1.
                                                                                                        17.7.5.3.2 If smoke detectors are used to initiate selectively the
   17.7.3.7.3 The beam length shall not exceed the maximum                                              operation of equipment to control smoke spread, the require-
                                                                                                        ments of 17.7.5.4.2.2 shall apply.
S permitted by the equipment listing.                                                                   17.7.5.3.3 If detectors are used to initiate the operation of
U 17.7.3.7.4 If mirrors are used with projected beams, the                                              smoke doors, the requirements of 17.7.5.6 shall apply.
                                                                                                        17.7.5.3.4 If duct detectors are used to initiate the operation
   mirrors shall be installed in accordance with the manufactur-                                        of smoke dampers within ducts, the requirements of 17.7.5.5
                                                                                                        shall apply.
L er's published instructions.                                                                          17.7.5.4 Application.
                                                                                                        17.7.5.4.1 Area Smoke Detectors Within Smoke Compart-
   17.7.3.7.5 A projected beam­type smoke detector shall be                                             ments. Area smoke detectors within smoke compartments
                                                                                                        shall be permitted to be used to control the spread of smoke by
A considered equivalent to a row of spot-type smoke detectors for                                       initiating operation of doors, dampers, and other equipment.
                                                                                                        17.7.5.4.2* Smoke Detection for Air Duct System.
   level and sloping ceiling applications.                                                              17.7.5.4.2.1 Supply Air System.
                                                                                                     N (A) Where the detection of smoke in the supply air system is
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.7.3.7.6 Projected beam­type detectors and mirrors shall be   required by other NFPA standards, a detector(s) listed for the
ID mounted on stable surfaces to prevent false or erratic opera-

   tion due to movement.

IV 17.7.3.7.7 The beam shall be designed so that small angular

   movements of the light source or receiver do not prevent oper-
   ation due to smoke and do not cause nuisance or unintentional

D alarms.
IN 17.7.3.7.8* The light path of projected beam­type detectors

   shall be kept clear of opaque obstacles at all times.
   17.7.4 Heating, Ventilating, and Air-Conditioning (HVAC).

R 17.7.4.1* In spaces served by air-handling systems, detectors
Oshall not be located where airflow prevents operation of the
Fdetectors.
 17.7.4.2 In under-floor spaces and above-ceiling spaces that                                        air velocity present shall be installed in the supply air duct
                                                                                                     downstream of both the fan and the filters.
are used as HVAC plenums, detectors shall be listed for the
anticipated environment as required by 17.7.1.8.
                                                                                                     N (B) Where the air duct system passes through other smoke
                                                                                                     compartments not served by the duct, additional smoke detec-
N 17.7.4.3 Detector spacings and locations shall be selected on                                      tors shall not be required to be installed.
the basis of anticipated airflow patterns and fire type.

 17.7.4.4* Detectors placed in environmental air ducts or                                            17.7.5.4.2.2* Return Air System. Unless otherwise modified
   plenums shall not be used as a substitute for open area detec-                                    by 17.7.5.4.2.2(A) or 17.7.5.4.2.2(B), if the detection of smoke
   tors.                                                                                             in the return air system is required by other NFPA standards, a
                                                                                                     detector(s) listed for the air velocity present shall be located
N 17.7.4.4.1 Where detectors are used for the control of smoke                                       where the air leaves each smoke compartment, or in the duct
   spread, the requirements of 17.7.5 shall apply.                                                   system before the air enters the return air system common to
                                                                                                     more than one smoke compartment.
N 17.7.4.4.2 Where open area protection is required, 17.7.3
   shall apply.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-108              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(A) Additional smoke detectors shall not be required to be        17.7.5.6.4 Smoke detectors shall be of the photoelectric, ioni-
installed in ducts where the air duct system passes through       zation, or other approved type.
other smoke compartments not served by the duct.
                                                                  17.7.5.6.5 The number of detectors required shall be deter-
(B) Where total coverage smoke detection is installed in          mined in accordance with 17.7.5.6.5.1 through 17.7.5.6.5.4.
accordance with 17.5.3.1 in all areas of the smoke compart-
ment served by the return air system, installation of additional  17.7.5.6.5.1 If doors are to be closed in response to smoke
detector(s) listed for the air velocity present where the air     flowing in either direction, the requirements of 17.7.5.6.5.1(A)
leaves each smoke compartment, or in the duct system before       through 17.7.5.6.5.1(D) shall apply.

the air enters in the return air system shall not be required,    (A) If the depth of wall section above the door is 24 in.
provided that their function is accomplished by the design of     (610 mm) or less, one ceiling-mounted smoke detector shall be
the total coverage smoke detection system.                        required on one side of the doorway only, or two wall-mounted

                                                                  detectors shall be required, one on each side of the doorway.
                                                                  Figure 17.7.5.6.5.1(A), part A or B, shall apply.
                                                                  (B) If the depth of wall section above the door is greater than
                                                                  24 in. (610 mm) on one side only, one ceiling-mounted smoke
                                                                  detector shall be required on the higher side of the doorway
                                                                  only, or one wall-mounted detector shall be required on both
                                                                  sides of the doorway. Figure 17.7.5.6.5.1(A), part D, shall apply.
                                                                  (C)* If the depth of wall section above the door is greater
                                                                  than 24 in. (610 mm) on both sides, two ceiling-mounted or
   17.7.5.5 Location and Installation of Detectors in Air Duct
   Systems.                                                       Depth of wall  Door frame                   Ceiling or wall mounted
   17.7.5.5.1 Detectors shall be listed for the purpose for which section above  mounted
                                                                  door                                        Smoke detector
Y they are being used.                                                           Smoke detector               ceiling or wall mounted
L  17.7.5.5.2* Air duct detectors shall be installed in such a way       d       listed for frame
N as to obtain a representative sample of the airstream.                         mounting or as               £ 12.0 in. (£ 300 mm)
                                                                                 part of closer
N 17.7.5.5.3 This installation shall be permitted to be achieved                 assembly

O by any of the following methods:                                                                    AB

   (1) Rigid mounting within the duct                             0-24 in.           d=                                                or
                                                                  (0-610 mm)       24 in.                 d
E (2) Rigid mounting to the wall of the duct with the sensing     on both        (610 mm)
           element protruding into the duct                       sides of                                                        max. 5 ft (1.52 m)
                                                                  doorway             Detector or                                 d min. but
S (3) Installation outside the duct with rigidly mounted                              detector closer                             not less than
           sampling tubes protruding into the duct                                    mounted on                                  12 in. (300 mm)
                                                                                      either side
U (4) Installation through the duct with projected light beam                                             One ceiling-mounted detector on either side or
                                                                                                          one wall-mounted detector on each side
   17.7.5.5.4 Detectors shall be mounted in accordance with the
                                                                                        d2 > 24 in. C      D                     5 ft (1.52 m)
L manufacturer's published instructions and shall be accessible                         (> 610 mm)        £ 12.0 in. (£ 300 mm)      max.
                                                                                 d1 £ 24 in.
   for cleaning by providing access doors or panels in accordance                (£ 610 mm)                                        min. = d2

A with NFPA 90A.                                                  Over                Detector or         d1 £ 24 in.             or
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 17.7.5.5.5 The location of all detectors in air duct systems24 in.detector closer     (£ 610 mm)                      d2 > 24 in.
                                                                  (610 mm)            mounted on                                          (> 610 mm)
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} shall be permanently and clearly identified and recorded.on one higher side
                                                                  side only
ID 17.7.5.5.6 Detectors mounted outside of a duct that employs

   sampling tubes for transporting smoke from inside the duct to

IV the detector shall be designed and installed to allow verifica-

   tion of airflow from the duct to the detector.

D 17.7.5.5.7 Detectors shall be listed for operation over the

   complete range of air velocities, temperature, and humidity

IN expected at the detector when the air-handling system is oper-

   ating.
   17.7.5.5.8 All penetrations of a return air duct in the vicinity

R of detectors installed on or in an air duct shall be sealed to

   prevent entrance of outside air and possible dilution or redi-

O rection of smoke within the duct.
F17.7.5.6 Smoke Detectors for Door Release Service.
                                                                                                          One ceiling-mounted detector on higher side
                                                                                                          or one wall-mounted detector on each side

                                                                                                       E  F                      5 ft (1.52 m)
                                                                                                            5 ft (1.52 m)

17.7.5.6.1 Smoke detectors that are part of an open area                                                    max.                    max.
                                                                                                          min. = d                min. = d

protection system covering the room, corridor, or enclosed        Over                                    or                      or
space on each side of the smoke door and that are located and     24 in.
spaced as required by 17.7.3 shall be permitted to accomplish     (610 mm)        d > 24 in.                  d                   £ 12.0 in.
smoke door release service.                                       on both        (> 610 mm)
                                                                  sides                                                           (£ 300 mm)

                                                                                 Detector or

17.7.5.6.2 Smoke detectors that are used exclusively for smoke                   detector closer          Two detectors required
door release service shall be located and spaced as required by                  mounted on
17.7.5.6.                                                                        either side

                                                                  Over                                 G

17.7.5.6.3 Where smoke door release is accomplished directly      60 in.         Might require additional detectors
from the smoke detector(s), the detector(s) shall be listed for   (1.52 m)

releasing service.                                                 FIGURE 17.7.5.6.5.1(A) Detector Location Requirements

                                                                  for Wall Sections.

2019 Edition        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 INITIATING DEVICES                                                                 72-109

wall-mounted detectors shall be required, one on each side of                                                                 Detector(s)
the doorway. Figure 17.7.5.6.5.1(A), part F, shall apply.                                                                       location

(D) If a detector is specifically listed for door frame mounting,                     CL                         a = 24 in.   On
or if a listed combination or integral detector­door closer                                                                   center-
assembly is used, only one detector shall be required if installed        a                                      (610 mm)     line of
in the manner recommended by the manufacturer's published                            W                           or less;     center
instructions. Figure 17.7.5.6.5.1(A), parts A, C, and E, shall      A                                            3 openings;  opening
                                                                                                                 W = 20 ft
apply.                                                                                                           (6.1 m)
                                                                                                                 or less

17.7.5.6.5.2 If door release is intended to prevent smoke                 CL                  CL                 a = 24 in. Treat as
transmission from one space to another in one direction only,
detectors located in the space to which smoke is to be              B                                            (610 mm) two or

                                                                       a                                         or less;     more

  confined, regardless of the depth of wall section above the                                                                     more than groups
  door, shall be in accordance with 17.7.5.6.6. Alternatively, a                                                                  3 openings
  smoke detector conforming with 17.7.5.6.5.1(D) shall be
                                                                    FIGURE 17.7.5.6.5.3(B) Detector(s) Location ±24 in.
Y permitted to be used.                                             (610 mm) Requirements for Group Doorways.
L 17.7.5.6.5.3 If there are multiple doorways, additional ceiling-
                                                                          CL              CL                     a = 24 in.   Detector(s)
  mounted detectors shall be required as specified in                                                            (610 mm)       location
                                                                       a                                         or less;
N 17.7.5.6.5.3(A) through 17.7.5.6.5.3(C).                                          W                            W = more       Treat as
                                                                                                                 than 20 ft      two or
  (A) If the separation between doorways exceeds 24 in.                                                          (6.1 m)          more
                                                                                                                                groups
O (610 mm), each doorway shall be treated separately. Figure

  17.7.5.6.5.3(A), part E, shall apply.

E (B) Each group of three or more doorway openings shall be
S treated separately. Figure 17.7.5.6.5.3(B) shall apply.

  (C) Each group of doorway openings that exceeds 20 ft

U (6.1 m) in width, measured at its overall extremes, shall be trea-

  ted separately. Figure 17.7.5.6.5.3(C) shall apply.

L 17.7.5.6.5.4 If there are multiple doorways and listed door
A frame­mounted detectors, or if listed combination or integral

  detector­door closer assemblies are used, there shall be one

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U detector for each single or double doorway.

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.7.5.6.6 The locations of detectors shall be determined in

ID accordance with 17.7.5.6.6.1 and 17.7.5.6.6.2.
                                                                    FIGURE 17.7.5.6.5.3(C) Detector(s) Location ±24 in.
                                                                    (610 mm) Requirements for Group Doorways over 20 ft
                                                                    (6.1 m) in Width.

   DIV CL           Single door            Detector(s)              17.7.5.6.6.1 If ceiling-mounted smoke detectors are to be
IN A                                         location               installed on a smooth ceiling for a single or double doorway,
                                                                    they shall be located as follows [Figure 17.7.5.6.5.3(A) shall
  RCL                                   On centerline of            apply]:
                                        doorway                     (1) On the centerline of the doorway
    B                                                               (2) No more than 5 ft (1.5 m), measured along the ceiling
                                        On centerline of
FOCL                                    doorway                            and perpendicular to the doorway [Figure 17.7.5.6.5.1(A)
                    Door offset from                                       shall apply.]
                    centerline of hall                              (3) No closer than shown in Figure 17.7.5.6.5.1(A), parts B,
                                                                           D, and F
                                                                    17.7.5.6.6.2 If ceiling-mounted detectors are to be installed in
                                                                    conditions other than those outlined in 17.7.5.6.6.1, an engi-
                                                                    neering evaluation shall be made.
                                                                    17.7.6 Special Considerations.
                                                                    17.7.6.1 Spot-Type Detectors.
                                                                    17.7.6.1.1 Combination and multi-sensor smoke detectors that
                                                                    have a fixed-temperature element as part of the unit shall be
                                                                    selected in accordance with Table 17.6.2.1 for the maximum
                                                                    ceiling temperature expected in service.

C                   Double door         On centerline of            17.7.6.1.2* Holes in the back of a detector shall be covered by
                                        doorway                     a gasket, sealant, or equivalent means, and the detector shall be
            CL      a = 24 in.                                      mounted so that airflow from inside or around the housing
                    (610 mm)            On centerline of            does not prevent the entry of smoke during a fire or test condi-
D               a   or less             separation                  tion.
                                                                    17.7.6.2* High-Rack Storage. The location and spacing of
        CL      CL                                                  smoke detectors for high-rack storage shall address the
                                                                    commodity, quantity, and configuration of the rack storage.
E                   a = More than       On centerline of each       17.7.6.3 High Air Movement Areas.
                                                                    17.7.6.3.1* General. The purpose and scope of 17.7.6.3 shall
            a       24 in. (610 mm)     doorway                     be to provide location and spacing guidance for smoke detec-

FIGURE 17.7.5.6.5.3(A) Detector Location Requirements
for Single and Double Doors.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-110                                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

tors intended for early warning of fire in high air movement          of smoke detectors shall not be required to be reduced based
areas.                                                                on the number of air changes.

17.7.6.3.2 Location. Smoke detectors shall not be located             17.7.7 Video Image Smoke Detection.
directly in the airstream of supply registers.
                                                                      17.7.7.1 Video image smoke detection systems and all of the
17.7.6.3.3* Spacing.                                                  components thereof, including hardware and software, shall be
                                                                      listed for the purpose of smoke detection.
17.7.6.3.3.1 Smoke detector spacing shall be reduced where
the airflow in a defined space exceeds 8 minutes per air change       17.7.7.2 Video image smoke detection systems shall comply
(total space volume) (equal to 7.5 air changes per hour).             with all of the applicable requirements of Chapters 1, 10, 14,
                                                                      17, and 23 of this Code.
17.7.6.3.3.2 Where spacing must be adjusted for airflow, spot-
type smoke detector spacing shall be adjusted in accordance           17.7.7.2.1 Systems shall be designed in accordance with the
with Table 17.7.6.3.3.2 or Figure 17.7.6.3.3.2 before making any
other spacing adjustments required by this Code.

Y 17.7.6.3.3.3 Air sampling or projected beam smoke detectors

shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's

L published instructions.
N 17.7.6.3.4 HVAC Mechanical Rooms. Where HVAC mechani-

cal rooms are used as an air plenum for return air, the spacings
O  Table 17.7.6.3.3.2 Smoke Detector Spacing Based on Air                performance-based design requirements of Section 17.3.
E Movement (Not to Be Used for Under-Floor or Above-Ceiling              17.7.7.2.2 The location and spacing of video image smoke
                                                                         detectors shall comply with the requirements of 17.11.5.
   Spaces)                                                               17.7.7.3* Video signals generated by cameras that are compo-
                       US Minutes per                                    nents of video image smoke detection systems shall be permit-
                                   Air Changes  Spacing per Detector     ted to be transmitted to other systems for other uses only
                       Air Change   per Hour                             through output connections provided specifically for that
                                       60       ft2  m2                  purpose by the video system manufacturer.
                        L 1            30                              17.7.7.4* All component controls and software shall be
                        A 2            20       125  12                  protected from unauthorized changes.
                                       15       250  23               N 17.7.7.5 All changes to the software or component settings
                             3         12       375  35                  shall be tested in accordance with Chapter 14.
                                       10       500  46                  17.8 Radiant Energy­Sensing Fire Detectors.
                       {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 48.6 625  58                  17.8.1* General.
                         8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 57.575070                  17.8.1.1 The radiant energy detection design documentation
                        ID 6             6.7    875  81                  shall state the required performance objective of the system.
                             7           6      900  84                17.8.1.2 The purpose and scope of Section 17.8 shall be to
                        IV 8                                             provide requirements for the selection, location, and spacing
                             9                                           of fire detectors that sense the radiant energy produced by
                            10                                           burning substances.
                     D 900 (83.6)               900  84               N 17.8.1.3 These detectors shall be categorized as flame detec-
                     IN 800 (74.3)              900  84                  tors and spark/ember detectors.
                     R 700 (65.0)                                        17.8.2* Fire Characteristics and Detector Selection.
ft2 (m2) per detectorFO600 (55.7)                                        17.8.2.1* The type and quantity of radiant energy­sensing fire
                                                                         detectors shall be determined on the basis of the performance
                                                                         characteristics of the detector and an analysis of the hazard,
                                                                         including the burning characteristics of the fuel, the fire
                                                                         growth rate, the environment, the ambient conditions, and the
                                                                         capabilities of the extinguishing media and equipment.
                                                                         17.8.2.2* The selection of the radiant energy­sensing detec-
                                                                         tors shall be based on the following:

                       500 (46.5)                                     (1) Matching of the spectral response of the detector to the

                       400 (37.2)                                            spectral emissions of the fire or fires to be detected
                                                                      (2) Minimizing the possibility of spurious nuisance alarms
                                                                      from non-fire sources inherent to the hazard area
                       300 (27.9)
                                                                      17.8.3 Spacing Considerations.

                       200 (18.6)                                     17.8.3.1 General Rules.

       100 (9.3)                                                      17.8.3.1.1* Radiant energy­sensing fire detectors shall be
                                                                      employed consistent with the listing or approval and the
                   60 50 40 30 20 10 0                                inverse square law, which defines the fire size versus distance
                                Air changes per hour                  curve for the detector.

FIGURE 17.7.6.3.3.2 High Air Movement Areas (Not to Be
Used for Under-Floor or Above-Ceiling Spaces).

2019 Edition                       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             INITIATING DEVICES                                                                        72-111

17.8.3.1.2 Detector quantity shall be based on the detectors                     17.8.3.3.4* The location and spacing of the detectors shall be
being positioned so that no point requiring detection in the                     adjusted using the inverse square law, modified for the atmos-
hazard area is obstructed or outside the field of view of at least               pheric absorption and the absorption of nonburning fuel
one detector.                                                                    suspended in the air in accordance with the manufacturer's
                                                                                 published instructions.
17.8.3.2 Spacing Considerations for Flame Detectors.
                                                                                 17.8.3.3.5* In applications where the sparks to be detected
17.8.3.2.1* The location and spacing of detectors shall be the                   could occur in an area not on the optical axis of the detector,
result of an engineering evaluation that includes the following:                 the distance shall be reduced or detectors shall be added to

(1) Size of the fire that is to be detected                                      compensate for the angular displacement of the fire in accord-
(2) Fuel involved                                                                ance with the manufacturer's published instructions.
   (3) Sensitivity of the detector
   (4) Field of view of the detector                                                17.8.3.3.6* Provisions shall be made to sustain the detector
   (5) Distance between the fire and the detector                                   window clarity in applications where airborne particulates and
   (6) Radiant energy absorption of the atmosphere                                  aerosols coat the detector window and affect sensitivity.
   (7) Presence of extraneous sources of radiant emissions                          17.8.4 Other Considerations.
                                                                                    17.8.4.1 Radiant energy­sensing detectors shall be protected
Y (8) Purpose of the detection system                                               either by design or installation to ensure that optical perform-
L (9) Response time required                                                        ance is not compromised.
                                                                                    17.8.4.2 If necessary, radiant energy­sensing detectors shall be
   17.8.3.2.2 The system design shall specify the size of the flam-                 shielded or otherwise arranged to prevent action from unwan-
                                                                                    ted radiant energy.
N ing fire of given fuel that is to be detected.                                    17.8.4.3 Where used in outdoor applications, radiant energy­
O 17.8.3.2.3* In applications where the fire to be detected could                   sensing detectors shall be shielded or otherwise arranged in a
                                                                                    fashion to prevent diminishing sensitivity by conditions such as
   occur in an area not on the optical axis of the detector, the                    rain or snow and yet allow a clear field of vision of the hazard
   distance shall be reduced or detectors shall be added to                         area.
                                                                                    17.8.4.4 A radiant energy­sensing fire detector shall not be
E compensate for the angular displacement of the fire in accord-                    installed in a location where the ambient conditions are known
                                                                                    to exceed the extremes for which the detector has been listed.
   ance with the manufacturer's published instructions.                             17.8.5 Video Image Flame Detection.
                                                                                    17.8.5.1 Video image flame detection systems and all of the
S 17.8.3.2.4* In applications in which the fire to be detected is                   components thereof, including hardware and software, shall be
U of a fuel that differs from the test fuel used in the process of                  listed for the purpose of flame detection.
                                                                                    17.8.5.2 Video image flame detection systems shall comply
   listing or approval, the distance between the detector and the                   with all of the applicable requirements of Chapters 1, 10, 14,
                                                                                    17, and 23 of this Code.
L fire shall be adjusted consistent with the fuel specificity of the                17.8.5.3* Video signals generated by cameras that are compo-
                                                                                    nents of video image flame detection systems shall be permit-
   detector as established by the manufacturer.                                     ted to be transmitted to other systems for other uses only
                                                                                    through output connections provided specifically for that
A 17.8.3.2.5 Because flame detectors are line-of-sight devices,                     purpose by the video system manufacturer.
                                                                                  17.8.5.4* All component controls and software shall be
   their ability to respond to the required area of fire in the zone                protected from unauthorized changes.
                                                                                 N 17.8.5.5 All changes to the software or component settings
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U that is to be protected shall not be compromised by the pres-   shall be tested in accordance with Chapter 14.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ence of intervening structural members or other opaque

   objects or materials.

IV 17.8.3.2.6* Provisions shall be made to sustain detector

   window clarity in applications where airborne particulates and
   aerosols coat the detector window between maintenance inter-

D vals and affect sensitivity.

   17.8.3.3 Spacing Considerations for Spark/Ember Detectors.

IN 17.8.3.3.1* The location and spacing of detectors shall be the

   result of an engineering evaluation that includes the following:

R (1) Size of the spark or ember that is to be detected

   (2) Fuel involved

O(3) Sensitivity of the detector

   (4) Field of view of the detector

F(5) Distance between the fire and the detector
   (6) Radiant energy absorption of the atmosphere
(7) Presence of extraneous sources of radiant emissions
(8) Purpose of the detection systems                                             17.9 Combination, Multi-Criteria, and Multi-Sensor Detectors.

(9) Response time required                                                        17.9.1 General. The requirements for the selection, location,
                                                                                 and spacing of combination, multi-criteria, and multi-sensor
17.8.3.3.2* The system design shall specify the size of the                      detectors shall comply with Section 17.9.
spark or ember of the given fuel that the detection system is to
detect.                                                                          17.9.2 Combination Detectors.

17.8.3.3.3 Spark detectors shall be positioned so that all points                17.9.2.1 A combination detector shall be listed for each
within the cross section of the conveyance duct, conveyor, or                    sensor.
chute where the detectors are located are within the field of                    17.9.2.2 The device listings shall determine the locations and
view (as defined in 3.3.106) of at least one detector.                           spacing criteria in accordance with Chapter 17.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-112               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

17.9.3 Multi-Criteria Detectors.                                                      17.11.5.1 The location and spacing of detectors shall be based
17.9.3.1 A multi-criteria detector shall be listed for the                            on the principle of operation and an engineering survey of the
primary function of the device.                                                       conditions anticipated in service.
17.9.3.2 Because of the device-specific, software-driven solu-                        17.11.5.1.1 The manufacturer's published instructions shall
tion of multi-criteria detectors to reduce unwanted alarms and                        be consulted for recommended detector uses and locations.
improve detector response to a nonspecific fire source, loca-                         17.11.5.2 Detectors shall not be spaced beyond their listed or
tion and spacing criteria included with the detector installation                     approved maximums.
instructions shall be followed.                                                       17.11.5.2.1 Closer spacing shall be used where the structural
17.9.4 Multi-Sensor Detectors.                                                        or other characteristics of the protected hazard warrant.

17.9.4.1 A multi-sensor detector shall be listed for each sensor.                     17.11.5.3 The location and sensitivity of the detectors shall be
                                                                                         based on a documented engineering evaluation that includes
   17.9.4.2 Because of the device-specific, software-driven solu-                        the manufacturer's installation instructions and the following:
   tion of multi-sensor detectors to reduce unwanted alarms and                          (1) Structural features, size, and shape of the rooms and bays
                                                                                         (2) Occupancy and uses of the area
Y improve detector response to a nonspecific fire source, loca-                          (3) Ceiling height
                                                                                         (4) Ceiling shape, surface, and obstructions
   tion and spacing criteria included with the detector installation                     (5) Ventilation
                                                                                         (6) Ambient environment
L instructions shall be followed.                                                        (7) Burning characteristics of the combustible materials
N 17.10 Gas Detection.
                                                                                                present
   17.10.1 General. The purpose and scope of Section 17.10                               (8) Configuration of the contents in the area to be protected
                                                                                      N 17.12 Carbon Monoxide Detectors.
O shall be to provide requirements for the selection, installation,                   N 17.12.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or
                                                                                         standards, carbon monoxide detectors shall be installed in
   and operation of gas detectors other than carbon monoxide                             accordance with the following:
                                                                                         (1)* On the ceiling in the same room as permanently installed
E detectors.
                                                                                                fuel-burning appliances, and
 17.10.2 Gas Characteristics and Detector Selection.                                     (2)* Centrally located on every habitable level and in every

S 17.10.2.1 Gas detection equipment shall be listed in accord-                                  HVAC zone of the building, and
U ance with applicable standards such as ANSI/UL 1484, Stand-                            (3) Outside of each separate dwelling unit, guest room, and

   ard for Residential Gas Detectors, or ANSI/UL 2075, Standard for                             guest suite sleeping area within 21 ft (6.4 m) of any door
                                                                                                to a sleeping room, with the distance measured along a
L Gas and Vapor Detectors and Sensors, for the specific gas or vapor                            path of travel, and
                                                                                         (4) Other locations where required by applicable laws, codes,
   it is intended to detect.                                                                    or standards, or
                                                                                         (5) A performance-based design in accordance with
A 17.10.2.2 Any gas detection systems installed on a fire alarm                                 Section 17.3
                                                                                      N 17.12.2 Carbon monoxide detectors shall meet the following
   system shall comply with all the applicable requirements of                           requirements:
                                                                                         (1) Carbon monoxide detectors shall be listed in accordance
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Chapters 1, 10, 14, 17, and 23 of this Code.                                with applicable standards, such as ANSI/UL 2075, Gas
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.10.2.3 The requirements of this Code shall not apply to gas          and Vapor Detectors and Sensors.
                                                                                         (2) Carbon monoxide detectors shall be set to respond to the
   detection systems used solely for process control.                                           sensitivity limits specified in ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for
                                                                                                Single and Multiple Station Carbon Monoxide Alarms.
IV 17.10.2.4* The selection and placement of the gas detectors

   shall be based on an engineering evaluation.

D 17.11 Other Fire Detectors.
IN  17.11.1 Detectors that operate on principles different from

   those covered by Sections 17.6 through 17.8 shall be classified
   as other fire detectors.

R 17.11.1.1 Such detectors shall be installed in all areas where

   they are required either by other NFPA codes and standards or

O by the authority having jurisdiction.
F 17.11.2* Other fire detectors shall operate where subjected to
the abnormal concentration of combustion effects that occur        N 17.12.3 All carbon monoxide detectors shall be located and
during a fire.                                                        mounted so that accidental operation will not be caused by

17.11.3 Detection layout shall be based upon the size and                             jarring or vibration.

intensity of fire to provide the necessary quantity of required                       N 17.12.4 The location of carbon monoxide detectors shall be
products and related thermal lift, circulation, or diffusion for                         based on an evaluation of potential ambient sources and flows
operation.                                                                               of carbon monoxide, moisture, temperature, dust, or fumes

17.11.4 Room sizes and contours, airflow patterns, obstruc-                           and of electrical or mechanical influences to minimize
                                                                                      nuisance alarms.
tions, and other characteristics of the protected hazard shall be
taken into account.
                                                                                      N 17.12.5 The selection and placement of carbon monoxide
                                                                                      detectors shall take into account both the performance charac-
17.11.5 Location and spacing of detectors shall comply with                           teristics of the detector and the areas into which the detectors
17.11.5.1 through 17.11.5.3.

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                    INITIATING DEVICES                                                               72-113

are to be installed to prevent nuisance and unintentional                           17.15.5 Manually actuated alarm-initiating devices shall be
alarms or improper operation after installation.                                    mounted on a background of contrasting color.

N 17.12.6 Unless specifically designed and listed for the expec-    17.15.6 The operable part of a manually actuated alarm-
   ted conditions, carbon monoxide detectors shall not be instal-   initiating device shall be not less than 42 in. (1.07 m) and not
   led where any of the following ambient conditions exist:         more than 48 in. (1.22 m) from the finished floor.

(1) Temperature below 32°F (0°C)                                    17.15.7 Manually actuated alarm-initiating devices shall be
(2) Temperature above 100°F (38°C)
(3) Relative humidity outside the range of 10 percent to            permitted to be single action or double action.

95 percent                                                          17.15.8* Listed protective covers shall be permitted to be
                                                                    installed over single- or double-action manually actuated alarm-
N 17.12.7 Unless tested and listed for recessed mounting,                           initiating devices.
   carbon monoxide detectors shall not be recessed into the
   mounting surface.                                                                17.15.9 Manual fire alarm boxes shall comply with 17.15.9.1
N 17.12.8 Protection During Construction.                                           through 17.15.9.6.
                                                                                    17.15.9.1 Manual fire alarm boxes shall be used only for fire
Y N 17.12.8.1 Where detectors are installed for signal initiation                   alarm initiating purposes.
L during construction, they shall be replaced prior to the final                    17.15.9.2 Manual fire alarm boxes shall be installed so that
                                                                                    they are conspicuous, unobstructed, and accessible.
   commissioning of the system.                                                     17.15.9.3* Unless installed in an environment that precludes
                                                                                    the use of red paint or red plastic, manual fire alarm boxes
N N 17.12.8.2 Where detection is not required during construc-                      shall be red in color.
   tion, detectors shall not be installed until after all other                     17.15.9.4 Manual fire alarm boxes shall be located within 5 ft
O construction trades have completed cleanup.                                       (1.5 m) of each exit doorway on each floor.
N 17.12.9 Carbon Monoxide Detectors for Control of Carbon                           17.15.9.5* Additional manual fire alarm boxes shall be provi-
                                                                                    ded so that the travel distance to the nearest manual fire alarm
E Monoxide Spread.                                                                  box will not exceed 200 ft (61 m), measured horizontally on
S N 17.12.9.1 System designers shall consider the spread of carbon                  the same floor.
                                                                                    17.15.9.6 Manual fire alarm boxes shall be mounted on both
   monoxide through an occupancy through the HVAC system.                           sides of grouped openings over 40 ft (12.2 m) in width, and
                                                                                    within 5 ft (1.5 m) of each side of the grouped opening.
U N 17.12.9.2 Interaction with smoke control systems, if such is                    17.16 Fire Extinguisher Electronic Monitoring Device. A fire
L provided, shall be coordinated.                                                   extinguisher electronic monitoring device shall indicate those
                                                                                    conditions for a specific fire extinguisher required by NFPA 10
   17.13 Sprinkler Waterflow Alarm-Initiating Devices.                              to a fire alarm control unit or other control unit.
                                                                                    17.17 Supervisory Signal­Initiating Devices.
A 17.13.1* The provisions of Section 17.13 shall apply to devices                   17.17.1 Control Valve Supervisory Signal­Initiating Device.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U that initiate an alarm indicating a flow of water in a sprinkler17.17.1.1 Two separate and distinct signals shall be initiated:
                                                                                    one indicating movement of the valve from its normal position
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} system.                                                       (off-normal), and the other indicating restoration of the valve
                                                                                    to its normal position.
ID 17.13.2* Activation of the initiating device shall occur within                  17.17.1.2 The off-normal signal shall be initiated during the
                                                                                    first two revolutions of the handwheel or during one-fifth of
   90 seconds of waterflow at the alarm-initiating device when flow                 the travel distance of the valve control apparatus from its
                                                                                    normal position.
IV occurs that is equal to or greater than that from a single sprin-

   kler of the smallest orifice size installed in the system.

D 17.13.3 Movement of water due to waste, surges, or variable

   pressure shall not initiate an alarm signal.

IN 17.14* Detection of Operation of Other Automatic Extinguish-

   ing Systems. The operation of fire extinguishing systems or
   suppression systems shall initiate an alarm signal by alarm-

R initiating devices installed in accordance with their individual

   listings.

O17.15 Manually Actuated Alarm-Initiating Devices.
F17.15.1 Manually actuated alarm-initiating devices shall be
listed in accordance with applicable standards such as ANSI/                        17.17.1.3 The off-normal signal shall not be restored at any
UL 38, Standard for Manual Signaling Boxes for Fire Alarm Systems.                  valve position except normal.

N 17.15.2 Manually actuated alarm-initiating devices for initiat-                   17.17.1.4 An initiating device for supervising the position of a
   ing signals other than for fire alarm shall be permitted if the                  control valve shall not interfere with the operation of the valve,
   devices are differentiated from manual fire alarm boxes by a                     obstruct the view of its indicator, or prevent access for valve
   color other than red and labeling.                                               maintenance.

17.15.3 Combination manual fire alarm boxes and guard's                             17.17.2 Pressure Supervisory Signal­Initiating Device.
signaling stations shall be permitted.                                              17.17.2.1 Two separate and distinct signals shall be initiated:
17.15.4 Manually actuated alarm-initiating devices shall be                         one indicating that the required pressure has increased or
securely mounted.                                                                   decreased (off-normal), and the other indicating restoration of
                                                                                    the pressure to its normal value.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-114                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

17.17.2.2 The requirements in 17.17.2.2.1 through 17.17.2.2.4                                    Chapter 18 Notification Appliances
shall apply to pressure supervisory signal­initiating devices.
17.17.2.2.1 Pressure Tank.                                                                       18.1* Application.

(A) A pressure tank supervisory signal­initiating device for a                                   18.1.1 The requirements of this chapter shall apply where
pressurized limited water supply, such as a pressure tank, shall                                 required by the authority having jurisdiction governing laws,
indicate both high- and low-pressure conditions.                                                 codes, or standards; or other parts of this Code.

(B) The off-normal signal shall be initiated when the required                                   18.1.2 The requirements of this chapter shall address the
pressure increases or decreases by 10 psi (70 kPa).                                              reception of a notification signal and not the signal's informa-
                                                                                                 tion content.

17.17.2.2.2* Dry Pipe Sprinkler System.                                                          18.1.3 The performance, location, and mounting of notifica-

   (A) A pressure supervisory signal­initiating device for a dry-                                   tion appliances used to initiate or direct evacuation or reloca-
   pipe sprinkler system shall indicate both high- and low-pressure                                 tion of the occupants, or for providing information to
   conditions.                                                                                      occupants or staff, shall comply with this chapter.
                                                                                                    18.1.4 The performance, location, and mounting of annun-
Y (B) For dry pipe valves, the off-normal signal shall be initiated                                 ciators, displays, and printers used to display or record informa-
L when the pressure increases or decreases by 10 psi (70 kPa).                                      tion for use by occupants, staff, responding emergency
                                                                                                    personnel, or supervising station personnel shall comply with
N (C) For low air pressure dry pipe valves, the high- and low-                                      this chapter.
                                                                                                    18.1.5* The requirements of this chapter shall apply to the
N pressure values shall be set in accordance with the manufactur-                                   areas, spaces, or system functions where required by the
                                                                                                    authority having jurisdiction governing laws, codes, or stand-
   er's installation instructions.                                                                  ards; or other parts of this Code requiring compliance with this
                                                                                                    chapter.
O 17.17.2.2.3 Steam Pressure.                                                                    · 18.1.6 Notification appliances shall be permitted to be used
E (A) A steam pressure supervisory signal­initiating device shall                                   within buildings or outdoors and to target the general build-
                                                                                                    ing, area, or space, or only specific parts of a building, area, or
   indicate a low pressure condition.                                                               space designated in specific zones and sub-zones.
                                                                                                 N 18.1.7 The requirements of Chapters 10, 14, 23, and 24 shall
S (B) The off-normal signal shall be initiated prior to the pres-                                   apply to the interconnection of notification appliances, the
U sure falling below 110 percent of the minimum operating pres-                                     control configurations, the power supplies, and the use of the
                                                                                                    information provided by notification appliances.
   sure of the steam-operated equipment supplied.                                                   18.2 Purpose. Notification appliances shall provide stimuli
                                                                                                    for initiating emergency action and provide information to
L 17.17.2.2.4 Other Sources. An initiating device for supervis-                                     users, emergency response personnel, and occupants.
                                                                                                    18.3 General.
   ing the pressure of sources other than those specified in                                        18.3.1 Listing. All notification appliances installed in
                                                                                                    conformity with Chapter 18 shall be listed for the purpose for
A 17.17.2.2.1 through 17.17.2.2.3 shall be provided as required by                                  which they are used.
                                                                                                    18.3.2 Nameplates.
   the authority having jurisdiction.                                                               18.3.2.1 Notification appliances shall include on their name-
                                                                                                    plates reference to electrical requirements and rated audible or
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 17.17.3 Water Level Supervisory Signal­Initiating Device.   visual performance, or both, as defined by the listing authority.
ID 17.17.3.1 Two separate and distinct signals shall be initiated:                                  18.3.2.2 Audible appliances shall include on their nameplates

   one indicating that the required water level has been lowered

IV or raised (off-normal), and the other indicating restoration.

   17.17.3.2 A pressure tank signal-initiating device shall indicate

D both high and low water level conditions.

   17.17.3.2.1 The off-normal signal shall be initiated when the

IN water level falls 3 in. (76 mm) or rises 3 in. (76 mm).

   17.17.3.3 A supervisory signal­initiating device for other than
   pressure tanks shall initiate a low water level signal when the

R water level falls 12 in. (300 mm).
O 17.17.4 Water Temperature Supervisory Signal­Initiating
FDevice.
17.17.4.1 A temperature supervisory device for a water storage                                   reference to their parameters or reference to installation docu-
container exposed to freezing conditions shall initiate two sepa-                                ments (supplied with the appliance) that include the parame-
rate and distinctive signals, as specified in 17.17.4.2.                                         ters in accordance with 18.4.4 or 18.4.5.

17.17.4.2 One signal shall indicate a decrease in water temper-                                  18.3.2.3 Visual notification appliances shall include on their
ature to 40°F (4.4°C), and the other shall indicate its restora-                                 nameplates reference to their parameters or reference to instal-
tion to above 40°F (4.4°C).                                                                      lation documents (supplied with the appliance) that include
17.17.5 Room Temperature Supervisory Signal­Initiating                                           the parameters in accordance with 18.5.3.1 or Section 18.6.
Device. A room temperature supervisory device shall indicate                                     18.3.3 Physical Construction.
a decrease in room temperature to 40°F (4.4°C) and its restora-                                  18.3.3.1 Appliances intended for use in special environments,
tion to above 40°F (4.4°C).                                                                      such as outdoors versus indoors, high or low temperatures,
                                                                                                 high humidity, dusty conditions, and hazardous locations, or

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                        NOTIFICATION APPLIANCES                                                  72-115

where subject to tampering, shall be listed for the intended  18.4.1.5.2* Unless otherwise required by other sections of this
application.                                                        Code, the coverage area for audible occupant notification shall
                                                                       be as required by other governing laws, codes, or standards.
 18.3.3.2* Notification appliances used for signaling other         N 18.4.1.5.3 Where other governing laws, codes, or standards
   than fire shall not have the word FIRE, or any fire symbol, in
any form (i.e., stamped, imprinted, etc.) on the appliance visi-    require audible occupant notification for all or part of an area
ble to the public.                                                  or space, coverage shall only be required in occupiable areas as
                                                                    defined in 3.3.187
N 18.3.3.3 Notification appliances with multiple visible element-
sused for signaling other than fire shall be permitted to have  18.4.1.5.4 The sound pressure levels that must be produced by
fire markings only on those visible elements used for fire signal-  the audible appliances in the coverage areas to meet the
ing.                                                                requirements of this Code shall be documented by the system
                                                                       designer during the planning and design of the notification
   18.3.4* Mechanical Protection.                                      system.
   18.3.4.1 Appliances subject to mechanical damage shall be        N 18.4.1.5.5 The greater of the expected average ambient sound
   suitably protected.                                                 pressure level or expected maximum sound pressure level
                                                                       having a duration of at least 60 seconds shall be documented
Y 18.3.4.2 If guards, covers, or lenses are employed, they shall       for the coverage area by the system designer to ensure compli-
L be listed for use with the appliance.                                ance with 18.4.4, 18.4.5, 18.4.6, or 18.4.7.
N 18.3.4.3 The effect of guards, covers, or lenses on the applian-     18.4.1.5.6 The design sound pressure levels to be produced by
                                                                       the notification appliances for the various coverage areas shall
   ce's field performance shall be in accordance with the listing      be documented for use during acceptance testing of the
                                                                       system.
O requirements.                                                        18.4.1.5.7 Where required by the authority having jurisdic-
                                                                       tion, documentation of the design sound pressure levels for the
   18.3.5 Mounting.                                                    various coverage areas shall be submitted for review and appro-
                                                                       val.
E 18.3.5.1 Appliances shall be supported independently of their        18.4.1.6* Voice messages shall not be required to meet the
                                                                       audibility requirements of 18.4.4 (Public Mode Audible
   attachments to the circuit conductors.                              Requirements), 18.4.5 (Private Mode Audible Requirements),
                                                                       18.4.6 (Sleeping Area Requirements), or 18.4.7 (Narrow Band
S 18.3.5.2 Appliances shall be mounted in accordance with the          Tone Signaling for Exceeding Masked Thresholds), but shall
U manufacturer's published instructions.                               meet the intelligibility requirements of 18.4.11 where voice
                                                                       intelligibility is required.
   18.3.6* Connections. Terminals, leads, or addressable               18.4.1.7 Audible notification appliances used for exit marking
                                                                       shall not be required to meet the audibility requirements of
L communication, that provide for monitoring the integrity of          18.4.4 (Public Mode Audible Requirements), 18.4.5 (Private
                                                                       Mode Audible Requirements), 18.4.6 (Sleeping Area Require-
   the notification appliance connections shall be provided.           ments), or 18.4.7 (Narrow Band Tone Signaling for Exceeding
                                                                       Masked Thresholds), except as required by 18.4.8 (Exit Mark-
A 18.4 Audible Characteristics.                                        ing Audible Notification Appliance Requirements).
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 18.4.1 General Requirements.   18.4.2 Distinctive Evacuation Signal.
ID 18.4.1.1* An average ambient sound level greater than               18.4.2.1* To meet the requirements of Section 10.10, the
                                                                       alarm audible signal pattern used to notify building occupants
   105 dBA shall require the use of a visual notification appli-       of the need to evacuate (leave the building) or relocate (from
                                                                       one area to another) shall be the standard alarm evacuation
IV ance(s) in accordance with Section 18.5 where the application       signal consisting of a three-pulse temporal pattern. The pattern

   is public mode or Section 18.6 where the application is private
   mode.

D 18.4.1.2* The total sound pressure level produced by combin-
IN ing the ambient sound pressure level with all audible notifica-

   tion appliances operating shall not exceed 110 dBA at the
   minimum hearing distance.

R  18.4.1.3* Sound from normal or permanent sources, having a
   duration of at least 60 seconds, shall be included when measur-
Oing maximum ambient sound level.

FN 18.4.1.4 Sound from temporary or abnormal sources lasting
less than 60 seconds shall not be required to be included when      shall be in accordance with Figure 18.4.2.1 and shall consist of
                                                                    the following in this order:
measuring maximum ambient sound level.

 18.4.1.5 Audible alert and evacuation signal tones, including      (1) "On" phase lasting 0.5 second ±10 percent
   those that precede or follow voice messages, shall meet the      (2) "Off" phase lasting 0.5 second ±10 percent for three
   requirements of 18.4.4 (Public Mode Audible Requirements),
   18.4.5 (Private Mode Audible Requirements), 18.4.6 (Sleeping            successive "on" periods
                                                                    (3) "Off" phase lasting 1.5 seconds ±10 percent

Area Requirements), or 18.4.7 (Narrow Band Tone Signaling           Exception: Where approved by the authority having jurisdiction, contin-
for Exceeding Masked Thresholds), as applicable.                    ued use of the existing consistent evacuation signaling scheme shall be

18.4.1.5.1* The designer of the audible notification system         permitted.

shall identify the rooms and spaces that will have audible notifi-  18.4.2.2 A single-stroke bell or chime sounded at "on" inter-
cation and those where audible notification will not be provi-      vals lasting 1 second ±10 percent, with a 2-second ±10 percent
ded.                                                                "off" interval after each third "on" stroke, shall be permitted.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-116                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

On                                                                             (2) After the initial 4 minutes of the carbon monoxide signal,
                                                                                      the 5-second "off" time shall be permitted to be changed
Off                                                                                   to 60 seconds ± 10 percent.

        (a) (b) (a) (b) (a)  (c)  (a)                                          (3) The alarm signal shall be repeated in compliance with
                                     Time (sec)                                       18.4.3.2(1) and 18.4.3.2(2) until the alarm resets or the
              Cycle                                                                   alarm signal is manually silenced.

        Key:                                                                   N 18.4.3.3 The signal shall be synchronized within a notification
        Phase (a) signal is on for 0.5 sec ±10%                                   zone of a protected premises.
        Phase (b) signal is off for 0.5 sec ±10%
        Phase (c) signal is off for 1.5 sec ±10% [(c) = (a) + 2(b)]            N 18.4.3.4 The audible signal of carbon monoxide alarms and
        Total cycle lasts for 4 sec ±10%                                          systems installed to meet the requirements of Chapter 29 shall
                                                                                  not be required to be synchronized.

   FIGURE 18.4.2.1 Temporal Pattern Parameters.                                   18.4.4* Public Mode Audible Requirements.
                                                                                  18.4.4.1* To ensure that audible public mode signals are
Y 18.4.2.3 The signal shall be repeated for a period appropriate                  clearly heard, unless otherwise permitted by 18.4.4.2 through
                                                                                  18.4.4.5, they shall have a sound level at least 15 dB above the
   for the purposes of evacuation of the building, but for not less               average ambient sound level or 5 dB above the maximum
                                                                                  sound level having a duration of at least 60 seconds, whichever
L than 180 seconds.                                                               is greater, measured 5 ft (1.5 m) above the floor in the area
N 18.4.2.3.1 The minimum repetition time shall be permitted to                    required to be served by the system using the A-weighted scale
                                                                                  (dBA).
   be manually interrupted.                                                       18.4.4.2 Where approved by the authority having jurisdiction
                                                                                  or other governing codes or standards, the requirements for
O 18.4.2.3.2 The minimum repetition time shall be permitted to                    audible signaling shall be permitted to be reduced or elimina-
                                                                                  ted when visual signaling is provided in accordance with
   be automatically interrupted for the transmission of mass noti-                Section 18.5.
                                                                                18.4.4.3 Audible notification appliances installed in elevator
E fication messages in accordance with Chapter 24.                                cars shall be permitted to use the audibility criteria for private
                                                                                  mode appliances detailed in 18.4.5.1.
   18.4.2.4* The standard evacuation signal shall be synchron-                  18.4.4.4 If approved by the authority having jurisdiction, audi-
                                                                                  ble notification appliances installed in restrooms shall be
S ized within a notification zone.                                                permitted to use the audibility criteria for private mode appli-
U N 18.4.3 Distinctive Carbon Monoxide Audible Alarm Signal.                      ances detailed in 18.4.5.1.
                                                                                  18.4.4.5 A signaling system arranged to stop or reduce ambi-
N 18.4.3.1 Where a carbon monoxide detector or alarm is                           ent noise shall comply with 18.4.4.5.1 through 18.4.4.5.3.
                                                                                  18.4.4.5.1 A signaling system arranged to stop or reduce ambi-
L required by other codes or standards or by the authority having                 ent noise shall produce a sound level at least 15 dB above the
A jurisdiction and where an audible signal is required, a distinc-

   tive signal pattern shall be required that is different from a fire

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U evacuation signal.

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 18.4.3.2 Where an audible signal is required, the carbon

ID monoxide signal shall be a four-pulse temporal pattern and

   comply with the following:

IV (1) Signals shall be a pattern consisting of four cycles of
          100 milliseconds ± 10 percent "on" and 100 milliseconds
          ± 10 percent "off," followed by 5 seconds ± 10 percent
 D "off," as demonstrated in Figure 18.4.3.2.
FOR IN On

Off                                                                                                                                  a

        a ba b a ba               c                                  a ba ba b a          c

              One cycle                                                        One cycle

                                                                      Phase a: signal is on for 100 ms ± 10 ms.
                                                                      Phase b: signal is off for 100 ms ± 10 ms.
                                                          Phase c: signal is off for 5 sec ± 0.5 sec for initial 4 minutes.
                                         After the initial 4 minutes Phase c: signal is permitted to be changed to 60 s ± 6 s off.

                        Although the diagram shows a square waveform, the wave can have other shapes that produce a similar effect.

N FIGURE 18.4.3.2 Temporal Pattern Parameters -- Carbon Monoxide Signal.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                          NOTIFICATION APPLIANCES                                                                                      72-117

reduced average ambient sound level or 5 dB above the maxi-                            18.4.7* Narrow Band Tone Signaling for Exceeding Masked
mum sound level having a duration of at least 60 seconds after                         Thresholds.
reduction of the ambient noise level, whichever is greater,
measured 5 ft (1.5 m) above the floor in the area required to                          18.4.7.1 Masked Threshold Allowance. Audible tone signaling
be served by the system using the A-weighted scale (dBA).                              shall be permitted to comply with the masked threshold
                                                                                       requirements in this subsection in lieu of the A-weighted signal-
18.4.4.5.2 Visual notification appliances shall be installed in                        ing requirements in 18.4.4 and 18.4.5.
the affected areas in accordance with Sections 18.5 or 18.6.
                                                                                       18.4.7.2* Calculation Method. The effective masked thresh-
18.4.4.5.3 Relays, circuits, or interfaces necessary to stop or                        old shall be calculated in accordance with ISO 7731, Danger
reduce ambient noise shall meet the requirements of Chapters                           signals for public and work places -- Auditory danger signals.
10, 12, 21, and 23.
                                                                                       18.4.7.3 Noise Data. Noise data for calculating the effective
   18.4.5 Private Mode Audible Requirements.                                              masked threshold shall be the peak value of noise lasting
   18.4.5.1* To ensure that audible private mode signals are                              60 seconds or more for each octave or one-third octave band.
   clearly heard, they shall have a sound level at least 10 dB above                      18.4.7.4 Documentation. Analysis and design documentation
                                                                                          shall be submitted to the authority having jurisdiction and shall
Y the average ambient sound level or 5 dB above the maximum                               contain the following information:
L sound level having a duration of at least 60 seconds, whichever                         (1) Frequency data for the ambient noise, including the date,

   is greater, measured 5 ft (1.5 m) above the floor in the area                                  time, and location where measurements were taken for
                                                                                                  existing environments, or projected data for environ-
N required to be served by the system using the A-weighted scale                                  ments not yet constructed
                                                                                          (2) Frequency data of the audible notification appliance
   (dBA).                                                                                 (3) Calculations of the effective masked threshold for each
                                                                                                  set of noise data
O 18.4.5.2* Where approved by the authority having jurisdiction                           (4) A statement of the sound pressure level that would be
                                                                                                  required by 18.4.4 or 18.4.5 if masked threshold signaling
   or other governing codes or standards, the requirements for                                    had not been done
   audible signaling shall be permitted to be reduced or elimina-                         18.4.7.5 Sound Pressure Level. For masked threshold signal-
                                                                                          ing, the audible signal tone shall meet the requirements of
E ted when visual signaling is provided in accordance with                                either 18.4.7.5.1 or 18.4.7.5.2 but not for the reproduction of
S Section 18.5.                                                                           prerecorded, synthesized, or live messages.
                                                                                          18.4.7.5.1 The sound pressure level of the audible tone signal
   18.4.5.3 A system arranged to stop or reduce ambient noise                             shall exceed the masked threshold in one or more octave
                                                                                          bands by at least 10 dB in the octave band under consideration.
U shall comply with 18.4.5.3.1 through 18.4.5.3.3.                                        18.4.7.5.2 The sound pressure level of the audible tone signal
L 18.4.5.3.1 A system arranged to stop or reduce ambient noise                            shall exceed the masked threshold in one or more one-third
                                                                                          octave bands by at least 13 dB in the one-third octave band
   shall be permitted to produce a sound level at least 10 dB                             under consideration.
                                                                                          18.4.8 Exit Marking Audible Notification Appliance Require-
A above the reduced average ambient sound level or 5 dB above                             ments.
                                                                                          18.4.8.1* Exit marking audible notification appliances shall
   the maximum sound level having a duration of at least                                  meet or exceed the frequency and sound level settings and
                                                                                          guidelines specified in the manufacturer's documented instruc-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 60 seconds after reduction of the ambient noise level, which-         tions.
                                                                                        18.4.8.2* In addition to 18.4.8.1, as a minimum, to ensure that
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ever is greater, measured 5 ft (1.5 m) above the floor, using the   exit marking audible notification appliance signals are clearly

ID A-weighted scale (dBA).

   18.4.5.3.2 Visual notification appliances shall be installed in

IV the affected areas in accordance with Sections 18.5 or 18.6.

   18.4.5.3.3 Relays, circuits, or interfaces necessary to stop or

D reduce ambient noise shall meet the requirements of Chapters

   10, 12, 21, and 23.

IN 18.4.6 Sleeping Area Requirements.

   18.4.6.1* Where audible appliances are installed to provide
   signals for sleeping areas, they shall have a sound level of at

R least 15 dB above the average ambient sound level or 5 dB

   above the maximum sound level having a duration of at least

O60 seconds or a sound level of at least 75 dBA, whichever is
Fgreater, measured at the pillow level in the area required to be
served by the system using the A-weighted scale (dBA).                                 heard and produce the desired directional effects for 50 ft
                                                                                       (15.24 m) within an unobstructed egress path, they shall meet
18.4.6.2 If any barrier, such as a door, curtain, or retractable                       the audibility requirements of 18.4.7 in at least one one-third
partition, is located between the notification appliance and the
pillow, the sound pressure level shall be measured with the                            octave band or one octave band within the effective frequency
barrier placed between the appliance and the pillow.                                   ranges of the interaural time difference (ITD), interaural level
                                                                                       or intensity difference (ILD or IID), and anatomical transfer
                                                                                       function or head-related transfer function (ATF or HRTF)
 18.4.6.3* Audible appliances provided for the sleeping areas                          localization cues.
   to awaken occupants shall produce a low frequency alarm
signal that complies with the following:
                                                                                       N 18.4.8.3 The exit marking audible notification appliance
                                                                                       signal shall penetrate both the ambient noise and the fire
(1) The waveform shall have a fundamental frequency of                                 alarm signal.
       520 Hz ± 10 percent.
(2)* The notification equipment shall be listed for producing
       the low frequency waveform.                                                     18.4.8.4 Where required by the authority having jurisdiction
                                                                                       governing laws, codes, or standards; or other parts of this Code,

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-118                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

exit marking audible notification appliances shall be installed         N· 18.4.11.6 Quantitative measurements shall be permitted. (See
in accordance with the manufacturer's published instructions.              D.2.4.)

18.4.8.5* Where required by the authority having jurisdiction                       18.5* Visual Characteristics -- Public Mode.
governing laws, codes, or standards; or other parts of this Code,                   18.5.1* Visual Signaling.
exit marking audible notification shall be located at the                           18.5.1.1 Public mode visual signaling shall meet the require-
entrance to all building exits and areas of refuge as defined by                    ments of Section 18.5 using visual notification appliances.
the applicable building or fire code.

18.4.8.6 Where exit marking audible notification appliances  18.5.1.2* The coverage area for visual notification shall be as
are utilized to mark areas of refuge, they shall provide an audi-                   required by other governing laws, codes, or standards.
ble signal distinct from that used for other exits that do not
have areas of refuge.                                                   N 18.5.1.3 Where other governing laws, codes, or standards
                                                                                       require visual notification for all or part of an area or space,
18.4.9 Location of Audible Notification Appliances for Build-                          coverage shall only be required in occupiable areas as defined
ing or Structure.                                                                      in 3.3.187.
                                                                                       18.5.2 Area of Coverage.
Y 18.4.9.1 If ceiling heights allow, and unless otherwise permit-                      18.5.2.1 The designer of the visual notification system shall
L ted by 18.4.9.2 through 18.4.9.5, wall-mounted appliances shall                      document the rooms and spaces that will have visual notifica-
                                                                                       tion and those where visual notification will not be provided.
have their tops above the finished floors at heights of not less                       18.5.2.2* Unless otherwise specified or required by other
                                                                                       sections of this Code, the required coverage area for visual noti-
N than 90 in. (2.29 m) and below the finished ceilings at distan-                      fication shall be as required by other governing laws, codes, or
                                                                                       standards.
ces of not less than 6 in. (150 mm).                                                   18.5.2.3 Where required by the authority having jurisdiction,
                                                                                       documentation of the effective intensity (cd) of the visual noti-
O 18.4.9.2 Ceiling-mounted or recessed appliances shall be                             fication appliances for the area of coverage shall be submitted
                                                                                       for review and approval.
permitted.                                                                             18.5.3 Light, Color, and Pulse Characteristics.
                                                                                       18.5.3.1 The flash rate shall not exceed two flashes per second
E 18.4.9.3 If combination audible/visual notification appliances                       (2 Hz) nor be less than one flash every second (1 Hz) through-
                                                                                       out the listed voltage range of the appliance.
are installed, the location of the installed appliance shall be                        18.5.3.2 The maximum light pulse duration shall be 20 milli-
                                                                                       seconds, except as permitted in 18.5.3.3.
S determined by the requirements of 18.5.5.                                         N 18.5.3.3* Light pulse durations greater than 20 milliseconds,
U 18.4.9.4 Appliances that are an integral part of a smoke detec-                      but not greater than 100 milliseconds, shall be permitted where
                                                                                       the alerting capability of the visual notification appliance is
tor, carbon monoxide detector, smoke alarm, carbon monox-                              demonstrated to be equal to or greater than visual notification
                                                                                       appliances with a 20-millisecond pulse duration.
L ide alarm, or other initiating device shall be located in                            18.5.3.4 The pulse duration shall be defined as the time inter-
                                                                                       val between initial and final points of 10 percent of maximum
accordance with the requirements for that device.                                      signal.
                                                                                       18.5.3.5* Visual notification appliances used for fire alarm
A 18.4.9.5 Mounting heights other than required by 18.4.9.1                            signaling only or to signal the intent for complete evacuation
                                                                                       shall be clear or nominal white and shall not exceed 1000 cd
and 18.4.9.2 shall be permitted, provided that the sound pres-                         (effective intensity).

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U sure level requirements of 18.4.4 for public mode or 18.4.5 for

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} private mode, or 18.4.6 for sleeping areas, based on the appli-

ID cation, are met.

18.4.10 Location of Audible Notification Appliances for Wide-

IV Area Signaling. Audible notification appliances for wide-area

signaling shall be installed in accordance with the require-

D ments of the authority having jurisdiction, approved design

documents, and the manufacturer's installation instruction to

IN achieve the required performance.

18.4.11* Voice Intelligibility. Within the acoustically distin-
guishable spaces (ADS) where voice intelligibility is required,

R voice communications systems shall reproduce prerecorded,

synthesized, or live (e.g., microphone, telephone handset, and

O radio) messages with voice intelligibility.

18.4.11.1* ADSs shall be determined by the system designer

Fduring the planning and design of all emergency communica-
tions systems.                                                                      18.5.3.6 Visual notification appliances used to signal occu-
                                                                                    pants to seek information or instructions shall be clear, nomi-
18.4.11.2 Each ADS shall be identified as requiring or not                          nal white, or other color as required by the emergency plan
requiring voice intelligibility.                                                    and the authority having jurisdiction for the area or building.

   18.4.11.3* Unless specifically required by other governing                          18.5.3.7* The visual synchronization requirements of this
   laws, codes, or standards, or by other parts of this Code, intelli-                 chapter shall not apply where the visual notification appliances
   gibility shall not be required in all ADSs.                                         located inside the building are viewed from outside of the
   18.4.11.4* Where required by the authority having jurisdic-                         building.
   tion governing laws, codes, or standards; or other parts of this                 N 18.5.3.8 Visual notification appliances used for carbon
   Code, ADS assignments shall be submitted for review and                             monoxide signaling shall be as required by the emergency plan
   approval.                                                                           and the authority having jurisdiction for the area or building
 18.4.11.5 Quantitative measurements shall not be required.                            and shall not exceed 1000 cd (effective intensity).

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                       NOTIFICATION APPLIANCES                                                        72-119

18.5.4* Appliance Photometrics. The light output shall                   (1) A single visual notification appliance.
comply with the polar dispersion requirements for public                 (2)* Two groups of visual notification appliances, where visual
mode signaling as described in ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for                notification appliances of each group are synchronized,
Signaling Devices for the Hearing Impaired, ANSI/UL 1638, Stand-         in the same room or adjacent space within the field of
ard for Visible Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems,  view. This shall include synchronization of visual applian-
Including Accessories, or equivalent.                                    ces operated by separate systems.
                                                                         (3) More than two visual notification appliances or groups of
18.5.5 Appliance Location.                                                      synchronized appliances in the same room or adjacent

18.5.5.1* Wall-mounted appliances shall be mounted such                  space within the field of view that flash in synchroniza-
that the entire lens is not less than 80 in. (2.03 m) and not            tion.

   greater than 96 in. (2.44 m) above the finished floor or at the
   mounting height specified using the performance-based alter-
   native of 18.5.5.7.
 18.5.5.2 Where low ceiling heights do not permit wall mount-
   ing at a minimum of 80 in. (2.03 m), wall mounted visual noti-

Y fication appliances shall be mounted within 6 in. (150 mm) of
L the ceiling.
N N 18.5.5.3 Where low ceiling heights do not permit wall mount-

   ing at a minimum of 80 in. (2.03 m), the room size covered by
   a visual notification appliance of a given value shall be reduced

O by twice the difference between the minimum mounting height

   of 80 in. (2.03 m) and the actual lower mounting height.

E 18.5.5.4* Visual notification appliances listed for mounting
S parallel to the floor shall be permitted to be located on the

   ceiling or suspended below the ceiling.

U 18.5.5.5* Spacing in Rooms.
L  18.5.5.5.1* Spacing shall be in accordance with either Table

   18.5.5.5.1(a) and Figure 18.5.5.5.1 or Table 18.5.5.5.1(b).

A 18.5.5.5.2 Visual notification appliances shall be installed in

   accordance with Table 18.5.5.5.1(a) or Table 18.5.5.5.1(b)

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U using one of the following:
                                                                            18.5.5.5.3 Room spacing in accordance with Table
                                                                            18.5.5.5.1(a) and Figure 18.5.5.5.1 for wall-mounted appliances
                                                                            shall be based on locating the visual notification appliance at
                                                                            the halfway distance of the wall.
                                                                          18.5.5.5.4 In square rooms with appliances not centered or in
                                                                            nonsquare rooms, the effective intensity (cd) from one wall-
                                                                            mounted visual notification appliance shall be determined by
                                                                            maximum room size dimensions obtained either by measuring
                                                                            the distance to the farthest wall or by doubling the distance to
                                                                            the farthest adjacent wall, whichever is greater, as required by
                                                                            Table 18.5.5.5.1(a) and Figure 18.5.5.5.1.
                                                                            18.5.5.5.5 If a room configuration is not square, the square
                                                                            room size that allows the entire room to be encompassed or
                                                                            allows the room to be subdivided into multiple squares shall be
                                                                            used.
                                                                            18.5.5.5.6* If ceiling heights exceed 30 ft (9.1 m), ceiling-
                                                                            mounted visual notification appliances shall be suspended at or
                                                                            below 30 ft (9.1 m) or at the mounting height determined
                                                                            using the performance-based alternative of 18.5.5.7, or wall-
                                                                            mounted visual notification appliances shall be installed in
                                                                            accordance with Table 18.5.5.5.1(a).
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  Table 18.5.5.5.1(a) Room Spacing for Wall-Mounted Visual Notification Appliances
           IV Maximum
           D Room Size                 Minimum Required Light Output
  IN ft                                     [Effective Intensity (cd)]

           20 × 20        m            One Visual Notification           Four Visual Notification
                    6.10 × 6.10         Appliance per Room                Appliances per Room
  R 28 × 28         8.53 × 8.53                                                (One per Wall)
                    9.14 × 9.14
           30 × 30  12.2 × 12.2        15                                NA
                    13.7 × 13.7        30                                NA
 O40 × 40           15.2 × 15.2        34                                NA
           45 × 45                     60                                15
                                       75                                19
F 50 × 50                              94                                30
54 × 54             16.5 × 16.5        110                               30
55 × 55             16.8 × 16.8        115                               30
60 × 60             18.3 × 18.3        135                               30
63 × 63             19.2 × 19.2        150                               37
68 × 68             20.7 × 20.7        177                               43
70 × 70             21.3 × 21.3        184                               60
80 × 80             24.4 × 24.4        240                               60
90 × 90             27.4 × 27.4        304                               95
100 × 100           30.5 × 30.5        375                               95
110 × 110           33.5 × 33.5        455                               135
120 × 120           36.6 × 36.6        540                               135
130 × 130           39.6 × 39.6        635                               185

NA: Not allowable.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-120                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table 18.5.5.5.1(b) Room Spacing for Ceiling-Mounted Visual Notification Appliances

              Maximum        Maximum Lens Height*                          Minimum Required
              Room Size                                                        Light Output

        ft               m   ft  m                                         (Effective Intensity);
                                                                  One Visual Notification Appliance

                                                                                     (cd)

20 × 20         6.1 × 6.1    10  3.0                                                   15
30 × 30         9.1 × 9.1    10  3.0                                                   30
40 × 40         12.2 × 12.2  10  3.0                                                   60
44 × 44         13.4 × 13.4  10  3.0                                                   75

20 × 20Y 44 × 44                 6.1
30 × 30         6.1 × 6.1    20                                                        30
                9.1 × 9.1    20  6.1                                                   45
L 20 × 20                        6.1                                                   75
                13.4 × 13.4  20                                                        80
46 × 46         14.0 × 14.0  20  6.1                                                   55
N 30 × 30                                                                              75
                6.1 × 6.1    30  9.1                                                   95
O 53 × 53       9.1 × 9.1    30  9.1                                                   110
50 × 50         15.2 × 15.2  30  9.1                                                   115
                16.2 × 16.2  30  9.1                                                   135
E 63 × 63                                                                              150
55 × 55         16.8 × 16.8  30  9.1                                                   177
59 × 59S 70 × 7018.0 × 18.0  30  9.1                                                   185
                19.2 × 19.2  30  9.1
68 × 68U *This does not preclude mounting lens at lower heights.309.1                               Visual
                20.7 × 20.7                                                                      notification
                21.3 × 21.3  30  9.1                                                              appliance
L  18.5.5.5.7 Table 18.5.5.5.1(b) shall be used if the ceiling-
   mounted visual notification appliance is at the center of the                                     20 ft      20 ft
A room.                                                                                            (6.1 m)     (6.1 m)

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U N 18.5.5.5.8 If the ceiling-mounted visual notification appliance                30 ft             30 ft
                                                                                                   (9.1 m)           (9.1 m)
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} is not located at the center of the room, the effective intensity
                                                                                                     40 ft                   40 ft
ID (cd) shall be determined by doubling the distance from the                                     (12.2 m)                 (12.2 m)

   appliance to the farthest wall to obtain the maximum room                                                                      50 ft
   size.                                                                                                                        (15.2 m)

IV 18.5.5.6* Spacing in Corridors.
D 18.5.5.6.1 The installation of visual notification appliances in

   corridors 20 ft (6.1 m) or less in width shall be in accordance

IN with the requirements of either 18.5.5.5 or 18.5.5.6.

   18.5.5.6.2 Paragraph 18.5.5.6 shall apply to corridors not
   exceeding 20 ft (6.1 m) in width.

R 18.5.5.6.3 In a corridor application, visual notification appli-

   ances shall be rated not less than 15 cd.

O 18.5.5.6.4 Corridors greater than 20 ft (6.1 m) wide shall
Fcomply with the spacing requirements for rooms in accordance
with 18.5.5.5.                                                                             50 ft

18.5.5.6.5* Visual notification appliances shall be located not                                  (15.2 m)
more than 15 ft (4.6.m) from the end of the corridor with a
separation not greater than 100 ft (30.5 m) between applian-       FIGURE 18.5.5.5.1 Room Spacing for Wall-Mounted Visual
ces.                                                                 Notification Appliances.

18.5.5.6.6 If there is an interruption of the concentrated view-  18.5.5.6.8 Wall-mounted visual notification appliances in
ing path, such as a fire door, an elevation change, or any other  corridors shall be permitted to be mounted on either the end
obstruction, the area shall be treated as a separate corridor.    wall or the side wall of the corridor in accordance with spacing
18.5.5.6.7 In corridors where more than two visual notifica-      requirements of 18.5.5.6.5.
tion appliances are in any field of view, they shall flash in
synchronization.

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                          NOTIFICATION APPLIANCES                                                72-121

18.5.5.7* Performance-Based Alternative.                                         18.6* Visual Characteristics -- Private Mode. Visual notifica-
                                                                       tion appliances used in the private mode shall be of a sufficient
18.5.5.7.1 Any design that provides a minimum of                       quantity and intensity and located so as to meet the intent of
0.0375 lumens/ft2 (0.4036 lumens/m2) of illumination at any            the user and the authority having jurisdiction.
point within the covered area at all angles specified by the           18.7 Supplementary Visual Signaling Method. A supplemen-
polar dispersion planes for wall- or ceiling-mounted public            tary visual notification appliance shall be intended to augment
mode visual notification appliances in ANSI/UL 1971, Standard          an audible or visual signal.
for Signaling Devices for the Hearing Impaired, ANSI/UL 1638, Visi-
ble Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Including
Accessories, or equivalent, as calculated for the maximum                        18.7.1 A supplementary visual notification appliance shall
distance from the nearest visual notification appliance, shall be                comply with its marked rated performance.

permitted in lieu of the requirements of 18.5.5, excluding                       18.7.2 Supplementary visual notification appliances shall be
   18.5.5.8.
   18.5.5.7.2 Documentation provided to the authority having                     permitted to be located less than 80 in. (2.03 m) above the
   jurisdiction shall include the following:                                     floor.
                                                                                 18.8 Textual Audible Appliances.
Y (1) Inverse Square Law calculations using each of the vertical                 18.8.1 Loudspeaker Appliances.
  L and horizontal polar distribution angles in ANSI/                            18.8.1.1 Loudspeaker appliances shall comply with
                                                                                 Section 18.4.
          UL 1971, Standard for Signaling Devices for the Hearing                18.8.1.2* The sound pressure level, in dBA, of the tone
                                                                                 produced by a signaling loudspeaker shall comply with all the
  N Impaired, or equivalent.                                                     requirements in 18.4.4 (public), 18.4.5 (private), or 18.4.6
                                                                                 (sleeping) for the intended mode or shall comply with the
   (2) The calculations shall account for the effects of polar                   requirements of 18.4.7 (narrow band tone signaling).
                                                                                 18.8.2 Telephone Appliances. Telephone appliances shall be
  O distribution using one of the following:                                     in accordance with Section 24.8.
                                                                                 18.9* Textual and Graphical Visual Appliances.
          (a) The percentages from the applicable table(s) in                    18.9.1 Application.
                                                                                 18.9.1.1 Textual and graphical visual appliances shall be
   E ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for Signaling Devices for the                        permitted to be used to signal information about fire or other
                                                                                 emergency conditions or to direct intended responses to those
                  Hearing Impaired, or equivalent                                conditions.
                                                                                 18.9.1.2 This section does not apply to means of egress signs,
  S (b) The actual results of laboratory tests of the specific                   room identification signs, and other signage that could be
                  appliance to be used as recorded by the listing                required by other governing laws, codes, or standards.
   U organization                                                                18.9.1.3 Textual visual appliance messages shall be permitted
   18.5.5.8 Sleeping Areas.                                                      to be static, flashing, or scrolling.
                                                                                 18.9.2 Location.
L 18.5.5.8.1 Combination smoke detectors and visual notifica-                    18.9.2.1 Private Mode. Unless otherwise permitted or
A tion appliances or combination smoke alarms and visual notifi-                 required by other governing laws, codes, or standards, or by
                                                                                 other parts of this Code or by the authority having jurisdiction,
   cation appliances shall be installed in accordance with the                   all textual and graphical visual notification appliances in the
                                                                                 private mode shall be located in rooms that are accessible only
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U applicable requirements of Chapters 17, 18, 23, and 29.      to those persons directly concerned with the implementation
                                                                                 and direction of emergency response in the areas protected by
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 18.5.5.8.2 Combination carbon monoxide detectors or alarmsthe system.

ID with visual notification appliances shall be located in accord-

   ance with the applicable requirements for the visual notifica-

IV tion appliance and the applicable requirements for the carbon

   monoxide detector or alarm of Chapters 17, 18, 23, and 29.

D 18.5.5.8.3* Table 18.5.5.8.3 shall apply to the minimum

   required intensity of visual notification appliances in sleeping

IN areas after establishing the mounting height.

   18.5.5.8.4 For rooms with a linear dimension greater than
   16 ft (4.9 m), the visual notification appliance shall be located

R within 16 ft (4.9 m) of the pillow.

   18.5.6 Location of Visual Notification Appliances for Wide-

OArea Signaling. Visual notification appliances for wide-area
Fsignaling shall be installed in accordance with the require-

   ments of the authority having jurisdiction, approved design
   documents, and the manufacturer's published instructions to
achieve the required performance.                                                18.9.2.2 Public Mode. Textual and graphical visual notifica-
                                                                                 tion appliances used in the public mode shall be located to
                                                                                 ensure visibility to the occupants of the protected area or to the
 Table 18.5.5.8.3 Effective Intensity Requirements for Sleeping                  intended recipients.
Area Visual Notification Appliances
                                                                                 18.9.2.3 Mounting. Desktop and surface-mounted textual and
                                                                                 graphical visual notification appliances shall be permitted.
Distance from Ceiling                Minimum Intensity                           18.9.3 Performance. The information produced by textual
    to Top of Lens                            (cd)                               and graphical visual appliances shall be clear and legible at the
                                                                                 intended viewing distance.
in.  mm

24   610                                  110
<24  <610                                 177

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-122                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

18.9.4* Character and Symbol Requirements and Viewing                (2) Viewing distance shall be measured as the horizontal
Distance.                                                                   distance between the character and an obstruction
18.9.4.1 This section applies to visual characters and graphic              preventing further approach towards the appliance.
elements and does not address raised characters or braille that
could be required by other governing laws, codes, or standards.      (3) Character height shall be based on the uppercase letter
18.9.4.2* Characters and symbols shall contrast with their                  "I".
background using either positive contrast (light on a dark back-
ground) or negative contrast (dark on a light background).           18.9.4.8* All characters and symbols displayed by textual and
18.9.4.3 Characters and symbols and their background shall           graphical visual notification appliances shall be a minimum of
have a nonglare finish.                                              40 in. (1.02 m) above the ground or finished floor.
                                                                     18.9.4.9 Stroke thickness of the uppercase letter "I" shall be
                                                                     minimum 10 percent and maximum 30 percent of the height
                                                                     of the character.

18.9.4.4* Characters shall be permitted to be uppercase or
lowercase, or a combination of both.

Y 18.9.4.5 Characters shall be conventional in form and not

italic, oblique, script, highly decorative, or of other unusual

L form and shall use sans serif fonts.
N 18.9.4.6 Characters shall be selected from fonts where the

width of the uppercase letter "O" is 55 percent minimum and

O 110 percent maximum of the height of the uppercase letter "I".

18.9.4.7* Character and symbol height for appliances other

E than desktop monitors or displays shall meet all of the follow-

ing criteria:

S (1) Minimum character height shall comply with Table
       18.9.4.7.
                                                                     18.9.4.10 Character spacing shall be measured between the
                                                                     two closest points of adjacent characters, excluding word
                                                                     spaces. Spacing between individual characters shall be mini-
                                                                     mum 10 percent and maximum 35 percent of character height.
                                                                     18.9.4.11 Spacing between the baselines of separate lines of
                                                                     characters within a message shall be 135 percent minimum and
                                                                     170 percent maximum of the character height.
                                                                     18.10 Tactile Appliances.
                                                                     18.10.1 Application. Tactile appliances shall be permitted if
                                                                     used in addition to audible and/or visual notification applian-
                                                                     ces.
AL U N Table 18.9.4.7 Visual Character and Graphic Symbol Height Based on Height and Distance
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Horizontal Viewing
        Distance
                                Minimum Character or Symbol Height for Installed Elevation
        IV ft
                    At 40 in. to 70 in. (1.0 m to 1.8 m)  At Greater Than 70 in. to 120 in. At Greater Than 120 in. (3.0 m) Above the
                               Above the Floor            (1.8 m to 3.1 m) Above the Floor                                      Floor

         D 2  m     in.     mm                                    in.        mm                in.                                     mm

        1     0.3   58      16                                    2          51                3                                       76
          IN 40.6   58      16                                    2          51                3                                       76
        3     0.9   58      16                                    2          51                3                                       76
              1.2   58      16                                    2          51                3                                       76
         5    1.5   58      16                                    2          51                3                                       76
        6R 8  1.8   58      16                                    2          51                3                                       76
         7    2.1   34      19                                    2          51                3                                       76
        O11   2.4   78      22                                    2          51                3                                       76
        9     2.7   1       25                                    2          51                3                                       76
F12     10    3     1 18    29                                    2          51                3                                       76
              3.4   1 14    32                                    2          51                3                                       76
              3.7   1 38    35                                    2          51                3                                       76
        13    4     1 12    38                                    2          51                3                                       76
        14    4.3   1 58    41                                    2          51                3                                       76
        15    4.6   1 34    44                                    2          51                3                                       76
        16    4.9   1 78    48                                    2 18       54                3                                       76
        17    5.2   2       51                                    2 14       57                3                                       76
        18    5.5   2 18    54                                    2 38       60                3                                       76
        19    5.8   2 14    57                                    2 12       64                3                                       76
        20    6.1   2 38    60                                    2 58       67                3                                       76
        21    6.4   2 12    64                                    2 34       70                3                                       76
        22    6.7   2 58    67                                    2 78       73                3 18                                    79
        23    7     2 34    70                                    3          76                3 14                                    83
        24    7.3   2 78    73                                    3 18       79                3 38                                    86
        25    7.6   3       76                                    3 14       83                3 12                                    89
>25           >7.6  3 + h*  76 + h*                               3 14 + h*  83 + h*           3 12 + h*                               89 + h*

*For each foot of horizontal viewing distance greater than 25 ft (7.6 m), add 18 in. (3 mm) to the character or symbol height.

2019 Edition        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

EMERGENCY CONTROL FUNCTION INTERFACES                                                                            72-123

18.10.2* Performance. Tactile appliances shall meet the                                      controlling the emergency control function shall comply with
performance requirements of ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for                                       the applicable provisions of NFPA 70.
Signaling Devices for the Hearing Impaired, or equivalent.                                   21.2.10 The method(s) of interconnection between the emer-
18.11* Standard Emergency Service Interface. Where                                           gency control function interface device and the component
required by the enforcing authority; governing laws, codes, or                               controlling the emergency control function shall be achieved
standards; or other parts of this Code, annunciators, informa-                               by one of the following recognized means:
tion display systems, and controls for portions of a system provi-                           (1) Electrical contacts listed for the connected load
ded for use by emergency service personnel shall be designed,                                (2) Data communications over a signaling line circuit(s)
arranged, and located in accordance with the requirements of
the organizations intended to use the equipment.                                                    dedicated to the fire alarm or shared with other premises
                                                                                                    operating systems
                                                                                             (3) Other listed methods

                              Chapter 19 Reserved                                               21.2.11 If a fire alarm system is a component of a life safety
                                                                                                network and it communicates data to other systems providing
     Y Chapter 20 Reserved                                                                      life safety functions, or it receives data from such systems, the
  L Chapter 21 Emergency Control Function Interfaces                                            following shall apply:
N 21.1* Application. The provisions of Chapter 21 shall cover                                   (1) The path used for communicating data shall be moni-
O the minimum requirements and methods for emergency
                                                                                                       tored for integrity. This shall include monitoring the
   control function interfaces to fire alarm systems and emer-                                         physical communications media and the ability to main-
                                                                                                       tain intelligible communications.
E gency communications systems in accordance with this chapter.                                 (2) Data received from the network shall not affect the opera-
                                                                                                       tion of the fire alarm system in any way other than to
   21.1.1 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 14, 17, 18, 23, 24,                                      display the status of life safety network components.
                                                                                                (3) Where non-fire alarm systems are interconnected to the
S and 26 shall apply, unless otherwise noted in this chapter.                                          fire alarm system using a network or other digital commu-
U · 21.1.2 The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to                                         nications technique, a signal (e.g., heartbeat, poll, ping,
                                                                                                       query) shall be generated between the fire alarm system
   Chapter 29 unless otherwise stated.                                                                 and the non-fire alarm system. Failure of the fire alarm
                                                                                                       system to receive confirmation of the transmission shall
L 21.2 General.                                                                                        cause a trouble signal to indicate within 200 seconds.
A 21.2.1* Emergency control functions shall be permitted to be                                  21.3* Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation.
                                                                                                21.3.1 All fire alarm initiating devices used to initiate elevator
   performed automatically.                                                                     Phase I Emergency Recall Operation shall be connected to the
                                                                                                required building fire alarm system.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 21.2.2 The performance of automatic emergency control   21.3.2* In facilities without a required building fire alarm
ID functions shall not interfere with power for lighting or for                                 system, fire alarm initiating devices used to initiate elevator
                                                                                                Phase I Emergency Recall Operation shall be connected to
   operating elevators.                                                                         either a nonrequired building fire alarm system or a dedicated
                                                                                                function fire alarm control unit that shall be designated as
IV 21.2.3 The performance of automatic emergency control                                        "elevator recall control and supervisory control unit," perma-
                                                                                                nently identified on the dedicated function fire alarm control
   functions shall not preclude the combination of fire alarm serv-                             unit and on the record drawings.
   ices with other services requiring monitoring of operations.                                 21.3.3 Phase I Emergency Recall Operation Initiation.
                                                                                             N 21.3.3.1 Unless otherwise permitted by 21.3.3.2 or required by
D 21.2.4* Emergency control function interface devices shall be                                 the authority having jurisdiction, only the elevator lobby, eleva-
IN located within 3 ft (0.9 m) of the component controlling the                                 tor hoistway, elevator machine room, elevator machinery space,
                                                                                                elevator control room, and elevator control space smoke detec-
   emergency control function where the control circuit is not                                  tors or other automatic fire detection as permitted by 21.3.10
   configured as a Class D circuit.                                                             shall be used to initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall
                                                                                                Operation.
R 21.2.5 The emergency control function interface device shall

   function within the voltage and current limitations of the fire

Oalarm control unit.

   21.2.6 The installation wiring between the fire alarm control

Funit and the emergency control function interface device shall
   be Class A, Class B, Class D, Class N, or Class X in accordance
   with Chapter 12.

21.2.7 Emergency control functions shall not interfere with                                  N 21.3.3.2 A waterflow switch shall be permitted to initiate Eleva-
other operations of the fire alarm system.                                                      tor Phase I Emergency Recall Operation upon activation of a
21.2.8 The method(s) of interconnection between the fire                                        sprinkler installed at the bottom of the elevator hoistway (the
alarm system and emergency control function interface device                                    elevator pit), provided the waterflow switch and pit sprinkler
shall be monitored for integrity in accordance with                                             are installed on a separately valved sprinkler line dedicated
Section 12.6.                                                                                   solely for protecting the elevator pit, and the waterflow switch
21.2.9 The method(s) of interconnection between the emer-                                       is provided without time-delay capability.
gency control function interface device and the component                                       21.3.4 Each fire alarm initiating device used to initiate eleva-
                                                                                                tor Phase I Emergency Recall Operation shall be capable of

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-124                                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

initiating the elevator recall function when all other devices on               distinct visible annunciation at the building fire alarm control
the same initiating device circuit have been manually or auto-                  unit or at the fire alarm control unit described in 21.3.2.
matically placed in the alarm condition.
                                                                                21.3.13 Where approved by the authority having jurisdiction,
21.3.5* Elevator Lobby Detector Location.                                       the detectors used to initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency
                                                                                Recall Operation shall be permitted to initiate a supervisory
N 21.3.5.1 A lobby smoke detector shall be located on the ceil-                 signal in lieu of an alarm signal.
   ing within 21 ft (6.4 m) of the centerline of each elevator door
within the elevator bank under control of the detector.               21.3.14 The following three separate outputs from the build-
                                                                                   ing fire alarm control unit or the fire alarm control unit descri-
N 21.3.5.2 For lobby ceiling configurations exceeding 15 ft                        bed in 21.3.2 to the elevator system shall be provided to
   (4.6 m) in height or that are other than flat and smooth, detec-                implement Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation in
   tor locations shall be determined in accordance with Chap-                      accordance with Section 2.27 of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety
   ter 17.                                                                         Code for Elevators and Escalators, as required in 21.3.14.1 and
                                                                                   21.3.14.2:
 21.3.6 Smoke detectors or other automatic fire detection as                       (1) Designated level associated output
   permitted in 21.3.10 shall not be installed in unsprinklered                    (2) Alternate level associated output
                                                                                   (3) Elevator machine room, elevator machinery space, eleva-
Y elevator hoistways unless they are required by ASME
L A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, for actua-                      tor control space, or elevator control room associated
                                                                                           output
   tion of the elevator hoistway smoke relief equipment and/or to
                                                                                 21.3.14.1* Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation to
N initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation as speci-                   Designated Level. For each elevator or group of elevators
                                                                                   operating in a group automatic operation, an output shall be
   fied in 21.3.14.1(2) and 21.3.14.2(2) for either of the following:              provided from the fire alarm system to the elevator system in
                                                                                   response to the following:
O (1) Hoistway machinery spaces containing a motor controller                      (1) Activation of smoke detector(s) or other automatic fire
           or driving machine                                                              detection as permitted by 21.3.10 located at any associ-
   (2) Control spaces located in the hoistway                                              ated elevator(s) lobby other than the lobby at the desig-
                                                                                           nated level
E N 21.3.7* Fire Alarm Initiating Device(s) Inside Elevator Hoist-                 (2) Activation of smoke detector(s) or other automatic fire
S ways. Fire alarm initiating device(s) required to be installed                           detection as permitted by 21.3.10 located at any associ-
                                                                                           ated elevator(s) machine room, elevator machinery space
   inside an elevator hoistway by other sections of this Code or by                        containing a motor controller or driving machine, eleva-
                                                                                           tor control space, or elevator control room, except where
U other governing laws, codes, or standards shall be required to                           such rooms or spaces are located at the designated level
                                                                                   (3) Activation of smoke detector(s) or other automatic fire
   be accessible for service, testing, and maintenance from                                detection as permitted by 21.3.10 located at any associ-
                                                                                           ated elevator(s) hoistway when sprinklers are located in
L outside the elevator hoistway.                                                           those hoistways, unless otherwise specified in 21.3.14.2(3)

   21.3.8* When sprinklers are required in elevator hoistways by                 21.3.14.2* Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation to
                                                                                   Alternate Level. For each elevator or group of elevators oper-
A other codes and standards, fire alarm initiating devices shall be                ating in a group automatic operation, an output shall be provi-
                                                                                   ded from the fire alarm system to the elevator system in
   installed to initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Opera-                  response to the following:
                                                                                   (1) Activation of smoke detector(s), or other automatic fire
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tion in accordance with ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for            detection as permitted by 21.3.10, located at the designa-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Elevators and Escalators, and the following shall apply:           ted level lobby served by the elevator(s)
                                                                                   (2) Activation of smoke detector(s), or other automatic fire
   (1) Where sprinklers are located at the top of the hoistway,                            detection as permitted by 21.3.10, located in the elevator
           the fire detection device(s) shall be located at the top of

  IV the hoistway.

   (2) Where sprinklers are located at the bottom of the hoist-

  D way (the pit), fire detection device(s) shall be installed in

           the pit in accordance with Chapter 17.

IN (3) Outputs from the fire alarm system to the elevator system
           shall comply with 21.3.14.
   (4) The fire alarm initiating device(s) shall be installed in

           accordance with Chapter 17.

R 21.3.9* Smoke detectors shall not be installed in elevator
O hoistways to initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Opera-
Ftion unless listed for the environmental conditions.
21.3.10* If ambient conditions prohibit installation of auto-                   machine room, elevator machinery space containing a
matic smoke detection used to initiate elevator Phase I Emer-                   motor controller or driving machine, elevator control
gency Recall Operation, other automatic fire detection                          space, or elevator control room serving the elevator(s) if
initiating devices shall be permitted.                                          such rooms or spaces are located at the designated level
                                                                                  (3)* Activation of the fire alarm initiating device(s) identified
21.3.11 When actuated, any fire alarm initiating device that is                           in 21.3.14.1(3) if they are installed at or below the lowest
used to initiate elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation                              level of recall in the elevator hoistway and the alternate
shall be annunciated at the building fire alarm control unit or                           level is located above the designated level
at the fire alarm control unit described in 21.3.2.
21.3.12 Actuation of the elevator hoistway, elevator machine                    · 21.4 Elevator Power Shutdown.

room, elevator machinery space, elevator control space, or  21.4.1* When heat detector(s) are used to actuate the discon-
elevator control room smoke detectors or other automatic fire                   necting means described in 2.8 of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety
detection as permitted by 21.3.10 shall cause separate and                      Code for Elevators and Escalators, to disconnect the main line
                                                                                power supply to the affected elevator and any other power

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                        EMERGENCY CONTROL FUNCTION INTERFACES                                    72-125

supplies used to move the elevator, upon or prior to the activa-                     21.6.2.3 Initiation. OEO shall be initiated by either manual
tion of sprinkler(s), the detector(s) shall have both a lower                        means from the Fire Command Center (FCC) or Emergency
temperature rating and a lower response time index (RTI) as                          Command Center in accordance with 21.6.2.4 or by actuation
compared to the sprinkler(s).                                                        of an automatic fire alarm initiating device in accordance with
                                                                                     21.6.2.3.1.
21.4.2* The heat detector(s) specified in 21.4.1 shall be
placed within 24 in. (610 mm) of each sprinkler and be instal- N 21.6.2.3.1* An active automatic fire alarm initiating device
led in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 17.                               that does not initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Opera-
                                                                                     tion shall cause the fire alarm system to provide a signal to the
21.4.2.1 Engineering methods, such as those specified in                             elevator system indicating the floor of an active alarm, except
Annex B, shall be permitted to be used to select and place heat                      as prohibited by 21.6.2.3.6.
detectors to ensure response prior to any sprinkler operation
under a variety of fire growth rate scenarios.                                       N 21.6.2.3.2* The floors to be evacuated shall be a contiguous
                                                                                        block of floors designated as "the elevator evacuation zone"
 21.4.3* If pressure or waterflow switches are used to actuate                          consisting of at least the floor with an active alarm, two floors
   the disconnecting means specified in 21.4.1, the use of devices                      above the floor with the active alarm, and two floors below the
   with time-delay capability shall not be permitted.                                   floor with the active alarm.
                                                                                     N 21.6.2.3.3* When the floor designated as the elevator
LY  21.4.4* Control circuit(s) of the disconnecting means speci-                        discharge level falls within the elevator evacuation zone, it is
   fied in 21.4.1 shall be monitored for the presence of operating                      not to be evacuated by the elevator(s), and the fire alarm
N voltage.                                                                              system shall initiate a voice message to instruct the occupants
N 21.4.5 Loss of voltage to the control circuit(s) in 21.4.4shall                       on that level to exit the building.
                                                                                     N 21.6.2.3.4 If activation of an automatic fire alarm initiating
O cause a supervisory signal to be indicated at the building fire                       device that does not initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall
                                                                                        Operation occurs on an additional floor(s), including the
   alarm control unit or at the control unit specified in or in                         elevator discharge level at any time while OEO is in effect, the
   21.3.2.                                                                              elevator evacuation zone shall be expanded to include all floors
                                                                                        with an active alarm, all floors between the highest and lowest
E  21.4.6 The devices specified in 21.4.2 and 21.4.3 shall be                           floor with an active alarm, plus two floors above the highest
S monitored for integrity by the fire alarm control unit specified                      floor with an active alarm and two floors below the lowest floor
                                                                                        with an active alarm.
   in 21.3.1 or 21.3.2.                                                              N 21.6.2.3.5 If the first active alarm is on the elevator discharge
                                                                                        level, automatic initiation of OEO shall not be permitted for all
U 21.5* Fire Service Access Elevators. Where one or more                                elevators having that same elevator discharge level.
L elevators are specifically designated and marked as fire service                   N 21.6.2.3.6* When the first active alarm is on an elevator
                                                                                        discharge level, the fire alarm system shall not send a signal to
   access elevators, temperature and presence of smoke in eleva-                        the elevator system for that alarm or any other active alarm that
                                                                                        does not initiate Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation
A tor lobbies, machine rooms, control rooms, machinery spaces,                          for that group of elevators.
                                                                                     · 21.6.2.4* Manual Floor Selection.
   or control spaces shall be continuously monitored and                             N 21.6.2.4.1 A means shall be furnished at the FCC to provide
                                                                                        for the manual selection of each floor in the building.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U displayed on a building fire alarm system annunciator(s), or     N 21.6.2.4.2 The manual floor selection shall be actuated only
                                                                                        by authorized or emergency personnel.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} other annunciator(s) as approved by the authority having juris-N 21.6.2.4.3 When OEO is not yet in effect and a manual floor
                                                                                        selection is made to initiate OEO, a signal shall be sent to the
ID diction.                                                                             elevator system simulating an active alarm for that floor.

· 21.6* Occupant Evacuation Elevators (OEE).

IV  21.6.1 Elevator Status. Where elevators are to be used for
   occupant self-evacuation during fires and non-fire emergen-
D cies, they shall comply with Sections 21.5 and 21.6.
 21.6.2 Occupant Evacuation Operation (OEO). Outputs from

IN the fire alarm system to the elevator system shall be provided to

   implement elevator occupant evacuation operation in accord-
   ance with Section 2.27 of ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for

R Elevators and Escalators, as required in 21.6.2.1 through 21.6.2.5.

N 21.6.2.1 Applicability. OEO shall only be initiated upon an

Oautomatic or manual signal from the fire alarm system to the
Felevator system.
N 21.6.2.1.1* OEO shall apply separately to each individual         N 21.6.2.4.4 When OEO is in effect and a manual floor selection
   elevator and to elevators having group automatic operation or       is made, the elevator evacuation zone shall be expanded as
   designated as an elevator group or group of elevators.              described in 21.6.2.3.4.

N 21.6.2.1.2* OEO shall function per 21.6.2.1.1 only prior to       N 21.6.2.4.5 Each manual selection means shall have the capa-
   Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation.                        bility to cancel a manually actuated output signal.
   21.6.2.2 Partial Building Evacuation. Where an elevator or
   group of elevators is designated for use by occupants for self-  N· 21.6.2.5* Fire Alarm Output Signals to Elevator System.

evacuation, the provisions of 21.6.2.3 through 21.6.2.6 shall N 21.6.2.5.1 Output from the fire alarm system to the elevator
apply for partial building evacuation.                                               system shall identify each floor with an actuated automatic fire
                                                                                     alarm initiating device.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

   72-126                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N 21.6.2.5.2 Output from the fire alarm system to the elevator N 21.6.2.9.2 When OEO has been partially terminated, the in-
   system shall include the following:                                 building fire emergency voice/alarm communications system
                                                                       shall transmit messages coordinated with the elevator system's
   (1) Floor(s) with anyactuated fire alarm initiating device(s)       variable message signs in compliance with 21.6.2.6.
   (2) Floor(s) selected by manual means from the FCC

N 21.6.2.5.3 The identified floor(s) shall be displayed on the         N 21.6.2.10* Total Termination of OEO. OEO shall be termina-
   building fire alarm system annunciator at the FCC or on a              ted for all elevators in the building upon reset of the fire alarm
   listed non-fire alarm system annunciator or other annunciator          system.

   as approved by the authority having jurisdiction.                   21.7 Heating, Ventilating and Air-Conditioning (HVAC)

 21.6.2.6* Occupant Notification. The in-building emergency            Systems.

   voice/alarm communications system shall transmit messages           21.7.1 The provisions of Section 21.7 shall apply to the basic
   coordinated with the elevator system's variable message signs in
   all elevator lobbies.                                               method by which a fire alarm system interfaces with the heat-
   21.6.2.6.1 Automatic voice evacuation messages shall be trans-      ing, ventilating, and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems.
                                                                       21.7.2* If connected to the fire alarm system serving the
   Y mitted to the elevator evacuation zone floors to indicate the     protected premises, all detection devices used to cause the
                                                                       operation of HVAC systems, smoke dampers, fire dampers, fan
   need to evacuate and that elevator service is available.            control, smoke doors, or fire doors shall be monitored for
   L 21.6.2.6.2 Automatic voice messages shall be transmitted to       integrity in accordance with Section 12.6.
   N the floors that are not in the elevatorevacuation zone and are    21.7.3 Connections between fire alarm systems and the HVAC
                                                                       system for the purpose of monitoring and control shall operate
   served by the group, to inform occupants that elevator service      and be monitored in accordance with applicable NFPA stand-
                                                                       ards.
   O is not available.                                                 21.7.4 Smoke detectors mounted in the air ducts of HVAC
 21.6.2.6.3* Automatic voice messages shall be transmitted to          systems shall initiate a supervisory signal.
                                                                       21.7.4.1 Smoke detectors mounted in the air ducts of HVAC
E the floors in the elevator evacuation zone when no elevators         systems in a fire alarm system without a constantly attended
                                                                       location or supervising station shall be permitted to initiate an
   serving that elevator evacuation zone are available.                alarm signal.
   S 21.6.2.6.4* Where required by the building code, the emer-        21.7.4.2 Smoke detectors mounted in the air ducts of HVAC
   U gency voice/alarm communications system's loudspeaker(s)          systems shall be permitted to initiate an alarm signal where
                                                                       required by other governing laws, codes, or standards.
   located in each OEE lobby shall be connected to a separate          21.7.5 If the fire alarm control unit actuates the HVAC system
   notification zone for manual paging only.                           for the purpose of smoke control, the automatic alarm-
L N 21.6.2.6.4.1 Individual paging zones per each OEE lobby on         initiating zones shall be coordinated with the smoke control
A each flooror a grouped paging zone for all OEE lobbies on a          zones they actuate.
                                                                       21.7.6 If carbon monoxide detection or a dedicated carbon
   floor shall be permitted if approved.                               monoxide system initiates a ventilation response, a smoke
                                                                       control response of the fire alarm system shall take precedence
                                                                       over the response of the carbon monoxide detectors during a
                                                                       fire alarm condition.
                                                                       21.7.7 Where interconnected as a combination system, a fire
                                                                       fighter's smoke control station (FSCS) shall be provided to
                                                                       perform manual control over the automatic operation of the
                                                                       system's smoke control strategy.
                                                                       21.7.8 Where interconnected as a combination system, the
                                                                       smoke control system programming shall be designed such that
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 21.6.2.6.4.2 A vertical paging zone for each elevator group
ID shall be permitted if approved.
N 21.6.2.6.5 Visual notification appliances (strobes) shall

IV comply with 24.5.17.3(1), 24.5.17.3(2), and 24.5.17.3(3).
   21.6.2.7 Total Evacuation. A means to initiate total building

   D evacuation labeled "ELEVATOR TOTAL BUILDING EVACUA-

   TION" shall be provided at the FCC.
   IN 21.6.2.7.1 When the total building evacuation means is actu-
   R ated.
   ated, the fire alarm system shall provide a signal to the elevator
   system indicating that all floors in the building are to be evacu-
   O ated, the in-building fire emergency voice/alarm communica-
·  21.6.2.7.2Fthe building.When the total building evacuation means is actu-


   tions system shall transmit an evacuation message throughout

N 21.6.2.8* Suspension of OEO for an Individual Elevator or            normal HVAC operation or changes do not prevent the inten-
   Group of Elevators. When OEO has been suspended, the in-            ded performance of the smoke control strategy.
   building fire emergency voice/alarm communications system
   shall transmit messages coordinated with the elevator system's      N 21.8 High Volume Low Speed (HVLS) Fans. Where required
   variable message signs in compliance with 21.6.2.6.                    by NFPA 13, all HVLS fans shall be interlocked to shut down
                                                                          upon actuation of a sprinkler waterflow switch that indicates
N 21.6.2.9* Partial Termination of OEO.                                waterflow in the area served by the fans.

N 21.6.2.9.1 OEO shall be terminated for a specific group of           21.9 Door and Shutter Release.
   elevator(s) when the signal(s) provided in 21.3.14.1 and            21.9.1 The provisions of Section 21.9 shall apply to the meth-
   21.3.14.2 associated with this group of elevator(s) has initiated   ods of connection of door and shutter hold-open release devi-
   Elevator Phase I Emergency Recall Operation for this group of       ces and to integral door and shutter hold-open release, closer,
   elevator(s).                                                        and smoke detection devices.

   2019 Edition    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

             PROTECTED PREMISES ALARM AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                           72-127

21.9.2 Other than smoke detectors used only for door and                         23.1.2 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 21,
shutter release and not for open area protection, all detection                  24, and 26 shall apply unless otherwise noted in this chapter.
devices used for door and shutter hold-open release service                    · 23.1.3 The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to
shall be monitored for integrity in accordance with                              Chapter 29 unless otherwise noted.
Section 12.6.                                                                  · 23.2 General.
21.9.3 Unless installed as Class D circuits in accordance with                   23.2.1* Purpose. The systems covered in Chapter 23 shall be
12.3.4, all door and shutter hold-open release and integral                      for the protection of life or property, or both, by indicating the
door and shutter release and closure devices used for release                    existence of heat, fire, smoke, carbon monoxide, or other
service shall be monitored for integrity in accordance with                      emergencies impacting the protected premises.
Section 12.6.

21.9.4 Magnetic door and shutter holders that allow doors to                   23.2.2 Software and Firmware Control.
   close upon loss of operating power shall not be required to
   have a secondary power source.                                                 23.2.2.1 A record of installed software and firmware version
   21.10 Electrically Locked Doors.                                               numbers shall be prepared and maintained in accordance with
                                                                                  Sections 7.5 and 7.7.
LY 21.10.1* Electrically locked doors in a required means of                      23.2.2.1.1* Software and firmware within the alarm and
                                                                                  signaling system that interfaces to other required software or
   egress shall unlock in the direction of egress where required by               firmware shall be functionally compatible.
                                                                                  23.2.2.1.2* The compatible software or firmware versions shall
N other laws, codes, and governing standards.                                     be documented at the initial acceptance test and at any reac-
                                                                                  ceptance tests.
   21.10.2 For all means of egress doors connected in accord-                     23.2.2.2* All software and firmware shall be protected from
                                                                                  unauthorized changes.
O ance with 21.10.1 where secondary power supplies of fire alarm                  23.2.2.3 All changes shall be tested in accordance with 14.4.2.
                                                                               N 23.2.3 Separate Systems. The requirements of this chapter
   control units are used, they shall comply with 10.6.7.                         shall not preclude the use of separate fire, carbon monoxide,
                                                                                  or other life safety systems provided the systems do not gener-
E 21.10.3* Secondary power supplies of fire alarm control units                   ate simultaneous conflicting notification to the building occu-
                                                                                  pants or conflicting actuation of safety functions.
   shall not be utilized to maintain means of egress doors in the                 23.3 System Features. The features required for a protected
                                                                                  premises fire alarm system shall be documented as a part of the
S locked condition unless the fire alarm control unit is arranged                 system design and shall be determined in accordance with
                                                                                  23.3.1 through 23.3.3.
   with circuitry and sufficient secondary power to ensure that the               23.3.1* Required Systems. Features for required systems shall
                                                                                  be based on the requirements of other applicable codes or stat-
U means of egress doors will unlock within 10 minutes of loss of                  utes that have been adopted by the enforcing jurisdiction.
                                                                                  23.3.2* Nonrequired (Voluntary) Systems and Components.
   primary power.                                                                 The features for a nonrequired system shall be established by
                                                                                  the system designer on the basis of the goals and objectives
L 21.10.4 Locks powered by independent power supplies dedi-                       intended by the system owner.
A cated to lock power and access control functions, and that                      23.3.2.1 Nonrequired protected premises systems and compo-
                                                                                  nents shall meet the requirements of this Code.
   unlock upon loss of power, shall not be required to comply                     23.3.2.2 Nonrequired systems and components shall be identi-
                                                                                  fied on the record drawings required in 7.2.1(15).
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U with 21.10.2.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 21.10.5 If means of egress doors are unlocked by the fire

ID alarm system, the unlocking function shall occur prior to, or

   concurrent with, activation of any public-mode notification

IV appliances in the area(s) served by the normally locked means

   of egress doors.

D 21.10.6 All doors that are required to be unlocked by the fire

   alarm system in accordance with 21.10.1 shall remain unlocked

IN until the fire alarm condition is manually reset.

   21.11* Exit Marking Audible Notification Systems.
   21.11.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, stand-

R ards, or the authority having jurisdiction, exit marking audible

   notification appliances shall be actuated by the building fire

Oalarm system.
F21.11.2 Exit marking systems shall meet the requirements of
Chapter 18.                                                                    23.3.3 Required Features.

                              Chapter 22 Reserved                 23.3.3.1* Building Alarm and Signaling Systems. Protected
                                                                    premises systems that serve the alarm and signaling needs of a
    Chapter 23 Protected Premises Alarm and Signaling Systems       building or buildings shall include one or more of the follow-
   23.1 Application.                                                ing systems or functions:
 23.1.1* The application, installation, and performance of            (1) Manual fire alarm signal initiation
   alarm and signaling systems within protected premises shall        (2) Automatic fire alarm and supervisory signal initiation
   comply with the requirements of this chapter.                      (3) Monitoring of abnormal conditions in fire suppression
                                                                             systems
                                                                      (4) Actuation of fire suppression systems
                                                                      (5) Actuation of emergency control functions
                                                                      (6) Actuation of fire alarm notification appliances

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-128        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(7) In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communications                            23.4.3.3 Results of the evaluation required by 23.4.3.1 shall be
 (8) Automatic carbon monoxide alarm and supervisory                                 included with the documentation required by 7.3.9.
        signal initiation                                                            23.5 Performance of Initiating Device Circuits (IDCs). The
                                                                                     assignment of class designations to initiating device circuits
 (9) Actuation of carbon monoxide notification appliances                            shall be based on their performance capabilities under abnor-
(10) Guard's tour supervisory service                                                mal (fault) conditions in accordance with the requirements for
(11) Process monitoring supervisory systems                                          Class A or Class B pathways specified in Chapter 12.
(12) Actuation of off-premises signals
(13) Combination systems

23.3.3.2* Dedicated Function Fire Alarm Systems.                                     23.6 Performance of Signaling Line Circuits (SLCs). The
                                                                                     assignment of class designations to signaling line circuits shall
23.3.3.2.1 In facilities without a building fire alarm system, a                     be based on their performance capabilities under abnormal
dedicated function fire alarm system shall be permitted and                          (fault) conditions in accordance with the requirements for
shall not be required to include other functions or features of a                    Class A, Class B, Class N, or Class X pathways specified in Chap-
building fire alarm system.                                                          ter 12.
23.3.3.2.2 Where a dedicated function fire alarm system exists                       23.6.1* SLC Zones. A single fault on a pathway connected to
                                                                                     the addressable devices shall not cause the loss of the devices in
Y and a building fire alarm system is subsequently installed, the                    more than one zone.
L systems shall be interconnected and comply with 23.8.2.                            23.6.1.1 For the purpose of this section, each floor of the
N 23.4 System Performance and Integrity.                                             building shall be considered a separate zone.
                                                                                     23.6.1.2 For the purpose of this section, if a floor of the build-
23.4.1 Purpose. Section 23.4 provides information that shall                         ing is subdivided into multiple zones by fire or smoke barriers
                                                                                     and the fire plan for the protected premises allows relocation
O be used in the design and installation of protected premises                       of occupants from the zone of origin to another zone on the
                                                                                     same floor, each zone on the floor shall be considered a sepa-
fire alarm systems for the protection of life and property.                          rate zone.
                                                                                     23.6.1.3* The requirements in 23.6.1 shall not apply to the
E 23.4.2 Circuit Designations. Initiating device circuits, notifica-                 following:
                                                                                     (1) Circuits between enclosures containing transponders and
tion appliance circuits, and signaling line circuits shall be desig-
                                                                                            control units regardless of the number of initiating devi-
S nated by class, depending on the circuit's capability to continue                         ces, notification appliances, or control relays that might
                                                                                            be connected to those control units
to operate during specified fault conditions as indicated in                         (2) Circuits connecting short-circuit fault isolation modules
                                                                                            to enclosures containing transponders and control units
U Sections 23.5 through 23.7.                                                               where the conductors are installed in metallic raceway or
L 23.4.2.1 Specified fault conditions shall result in the annunci-                          equivalently protected against mechanical injury and
                                                                                            where the circuit does not exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) in length
ation of a trouble signal at the protected premises within                           (3)* Alterations or modifications made to an existing SLC not
                                                                                            required to comply with 23.6.1 when originally installed
A 200 seconds as required in Section 12.6.                                           23.6.1.4 The loss of more than one zone shall be permitted on
                                                                                     a documented performance-based design approach.
23.4.2.2* Where the power to a device is supplied over a sepa-                       23.6.1.5* Performance-based designs submitted to the author-
                                                                                     ity having jurisdiction for review and approval shall include
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U rate circuit from the signaling line circuit or initiating devicedocumentation, in an approved format, of each performance
                                                                                     objective and applicable scenario, together with technical
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} circuit, the operation of the power circuit shall meet the      substantiation used in establishing the proposed zone perform-
                                                                                     ance.
ID performance requirements of the initiating device circuit or

signaling line circuit, unless different performance require-

IV ments are established in accordance with the evaluation in

23.4.3 and approved by the authority having jurisdiction.

D 23.4.3 Pathway Classification.

23.4.3.1 The class of pathways shall be determined from an

IN evaluation based on the path performance as required by

governing laws, codes, standards, and a site-specific engineer-
ing analysis.

R 23.4.3.2 When determining the integrity and reliability of the

interconnecting signaling paths (circuits) installed within the

O protected premises, the following influences shall be consid-
Fered:
(1) Transmission media used                                                          23.6.2* Class N Devices. Unless permitted in 23.6.2.1 or
(2) Length of the circuit conductors                                                 23.6.2.2, no area or zone shall be served solely by a single
(3) Total building area covered by, and the quantity of initiat-                     device where Class N pathways are deployed, such that a single
                                                                                     device failure resulting from a multiple ground-fault pathway
       ing devices and notification appliances connected to, a                       failure would render an area or zone incapable of initiating
       single circuit                                                                input signals or receiving output signals.
(4) Effect of a fault in the fire alarm system that would hinder
       the performance objectives of the system that protects the
       occupants, mission, and property of the protected prem-                       23.6.2.1 Where a risk analysis shows that only one device is
       ises                                                                          required and where acceptable to the authority having jurisdic-
(5) Nature of hazards present within the protected premises                          tion, the requirements of 23.6.2 shall not apply.

(6) Functional requirements of the system necessary to N 23.6.2.2 Multiple devices shall not be required in areas served
       provide the level of protection required for the system                       by pathways not susceptible to ground faults, such as fiber or
(7) Size and nature of the population of the protected prem-                         wireless pathways.
ises

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                    PROTECTED PREMISES ALARM AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                    72-129

N 23.6.2.3* Where a device as referenced by 23.6.2is serviced by                 23.6.3.5 Management Organization.
only a single pathway, it shall terminate that pathway with no
ability to connect additional endpoint devices to the pathway.      23.6.3.5.1* An organization shall be established and main-
                                                                      tained to manage the life safety network and shall perform the
 23.6.2.4* A single fault on a Class N pathway shall not cause     following:
the loss of more than one addressable device.
                                                                                 (1) Contain members appropriately certified by each manu-
                                                                                 facturer of the equipment and devices deployed on
 23.6.3 Class N Shared Pathways. Class N pathways shall be                       shared pathways to maintain such a network
   required to use shared pathway Level 3 as specified in 12.5.4                 (2) Service and maintain all shared Class N pathways
except as permitted by 23.6.3.2.                                                 (3) Maintain the deployment and shared pathways plan for

 23.6.3.1 Accessibility. Class N pathways shall not be accessible                the lifetime of the shared pathways
to the general public or building occupants for any purpose
   other than specified in the network design analysis, mainte-                  23.6.3.5.2* Other service personnel, even when certified to
   nance, and deployment plans.                                                  service a specific system (i.e., fire alarm or MNS), shall be
   23.6.3.2 Level 1 and Level 2. Shared pathways Levels 1 and 2                  authorized and managed by this organization to ensure any
                                                                                 outages of any system are planned, managed, and documented
Y shall be permitted subject to approval of the authority having                 and appropriate steps are taken during outages to provide
L jurisdiction, based on documentation of the deployment,                        alternate protection of life and property.
                                                                                 23.6.3.6 Network Design Analysis.
   change control, maintenance plans, management organization,                   23.6.3.6.1* The analysis shall be performed to determine and
                                                                                 document communications capability as follows:
N network design analysis, and a risk analysis as identified in                  (1) Calculation of minimum required bandwidth such that all

   23.6.3.3 through 23.6.3.8.                                                           life safety systems can be guaranteed to operate simulta-
                                                                                        neously and within required time limits
O 23.6.3.3* Deployment Plan.                                                     (2) Total bandwidth provided by the network
                                                                                 (3) Future bandwidth requirements
   23.6.3.3.1 All equipment connected to shared pathways shall                   (4) Method of providing and maintaining the prioritization
                                                                                        of life safety traffic over non­life safety traffic
E be documented in the deployment plan.                                          23.6.3.6.2* The analysis shall determine and document the
S 23.6.3.3.1.1 The documentation shall include manufacturer,                     power distribution capability as follows:
                                                                                 (1) The methods provided to maintain power to all shared
   model, listings, and intended purpose and reason for inclusion                       pathway equipment
                                                                                 (2) A calculation of power requirements of all connected
U on the shared network.                                                                equipment
                                                                                 (3) Secondary power capacities provided to maintain all life
   23.6.3.3.1.2* The deployment plan shall identify how and                             safety equipment with minimum operational capacity in
                                                                                        accordance with 10.6.7.2.1.2
L where each piece of equipment is connected.                                    (4) Methods to disengage any non­life safety equipment in
A 23.6.3.3.2* All connection ports, used or spare, where any                            the event of emergency operation if required to support
                                                                                        the minimum operational capacity requirements
   unauthorized or unintended equipment could be added to the                    23.6.3.7 Maintenance Plan.
                                                                                 23.6.3.7.1* The maintenance plan shall identify policy and
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U shared network, shall be identified as for use only by equip-procedures to monitor, maintain, test, and control change of
                                                                                 the shared pathways.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ment consistent with the deployment plan.                  23.6.3.7.2* Written procedures shall be presented in mainte-
                                                                                 nance plans to govern the following:
ID N 23.6.3.3.3 Equipment Location.                                              (1) Physical access to all parts of the Class N network equip-
IV N 23.6.3.3.3.1 The requirements of 23.6.3.3.3.2 through

   23.6.3.3.3.4 shall apply to all equipment rooms, equipment
   closets, telecommunication rooms, telecommunication enclo-

D sures, or the like, for which both Class N life safety network

   infrastructure and non­life safety network equipment resides.

IN N 23.6.3.3.3.2* Equipment rooms or enclosures shall be permit-
   ted to contain both Class N life safety networking cable, equip-
   ment, and associated infrastructure provided the deployment
R satisfies 23.6.3.3.3.3 through 23.6.3.3.3.4.
N 23.6.3.3.3.3 Class N life safety network cabling, equipment,

Oand infrastructure shall be clearly segregated and identified as
F"Life Safety Network."
N 23.6.3.3.3.4 Equipment rooms or enclosures shall be accessi-                   ment (i.e., switches, ports, server, controllers, devices, or
ble to only authorized personnel via a locked access or via an                   components)
enclosure requiring the use of tools to open, as acceptable by                   (2) Electronic access to all parts of the Class N network (i.e.,
the authority having jurisdiction.                                               passwords, addresses)
                                                                                 (3)* Service outage impairment process with notices of impair-
23.6.3.4 Change Control Plan. Configuration upgrades and                                ment and contingency plans for affected systems
updates shall be governed by a change control plan that deter-
mines the policy and procedure of the change and ensures that                    (4) Upgrade procedures
all documentation is correspondingly updated.                                    (5) Change control procedures, with consideration given to

                                                                                        require an updated risk analysis if necessary
                                                                   (6) Prioritization and/or segregation configuration informa-
                                                                                 tion for life safety traffic

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-130                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(7) Maintenance and testing plans to ensure the minimum              (2) Where there is a connection to a remote location, the
       operational capacity with respect to secondary power is              transmission of the fire alarm signal to the supervising
       maintained                                                           station actuates upon the initial alarm signal.

(8) Other service, maintenance, or reconfiguration plans for         (3) Subsequent system operation is by either of the following
       any connected equipment                                              means:

23.6.3.8* Network Risk Analysis for Class N.                          (a) Human action that actuates the general fire alarm
                                                                      (b) A feature that allows the control equipment to delay
N 23.6.3.8.1 Each application of a Class N deployment shall be        the general alarm by more than 1 minute after the
specific to the nature and anticipated risks of each facility for
which it is designed.                                                 start of the alarm processing

N 23.6.3.8.2 The risk analysis shall address both fire and non-fire   23.8.1.2 Positive Alarm Sequence.

   emergencies when determining risk tolerances for the surviva-      23.8.1.2.1 Systems that have positive alarm features complying
   bility of the network and the systems and devices it serves.       with 23.8.1.2 shall be permitted if approved by the authority
N 23.6.3.8.3 The detail and complexity of the risk analysis shall     having jurisdiction.
                                                                      23.8.1.2.1.1 The positive alarm sequence operation shall
Y be commensurate with the complexity of the facility for which       comply with the following:
L the network is to be installed.                                     (1) To initiate the positive alarm sequence operation, the

N 23.6.3.8.4 The risk analysis shall be permitted to be limited in           signal from an automatic fire detection device selected
                                                                             for positive alarm sequence operation shall be acknowl-
N scope to address the requirements of an existing emergency                 edged at the fire alarm control unit by trained personnel
                                                                             within 15 seconds of annunciation.
   response plan.                                                     (2) If the signal is not acknowledged within 15 seconds, noti-
                                                                             fication signals in accordance with the building evacua-
O N 23.6.3.8.5 The risk analysis shall consider characteristics of the       tion or relocation plan and remote signals shall be
   buildings, areas, spaces, campuses or regions, equipment, and             automatically and immediately actuated.
E operations that are not inherent in the design specifications.      (3) If the positive alarm sequence operation is initiated in
                                                                             accordance with 23.8.1.2.1.1(1), trained personnel shall
S N 23.6.3.8.6 Those elements that are not inherent in the design            have an alarm investigation phase of up to 180 seconds to
   specifications, but that affect occupant behavior or the rate of          evaluate the fire condition and reset the system.
U hazard development, shall be explicitly identified and included     (4) If the system is not reset during the alarm investigation
   in the risk analysis.                                                     phase, notification signals in accordance with the build-
                                                                             ing evacuation or relocation plan and remote signals shall
L N 23.6.3.8.7 The risk analysis shall consider the following types          be automatically and immediately actuated.
   of potential events, which are not all-inclusive but reflect the   (5) If a second automatic fire detector selected for positive
A general categories that shall be considered in the risk analysis:          alarm sequence is actuated during the alarm investigation
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (1) Natural hazards -- geological events                 phase, notification signals in accordance with the build-
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (2) Natural hazards -- meteorological events           ing evacuation or relocation plan and remote signals shall
ID (3) Human caused -- accidental events                                     be automatically and immediately actuated.
   (4) Human caused -- intentional events                             (6)* If any other fire alarm initiating device is actuated, notifi-
   (5) Technological -- caused events                                        cation signals in accordance with the building evacuation
                                                                             or relocation plan and remote signals shall be automati-
IV N 23.6.3.8.8 All other identified risks as required by the author-        cally and immediately actuated.
   ity having jurisdiction shall be discussed and addressed in the    23.8.1.2.1.2* The system shall provide means for bypassing
D analysis and maintenance plans.                                     the positive alarm sequence.
IN 23.7 Performance of Notification Appliance Circuits (NACs).        23.8.2* Alarm Control Units.
   The assignment of class designations to notification appliance     23.8.2.1 Alarm and signaling systems shall be permitted to
   circuits shall be based on their performance capabilities under    combine all detection, notification, and auxiliary functions in a
   abnormal (fault) conditions in accordance with the require-
R ments for Class A, Class B, or Class X pathways specified in
   Chapter 12.
FO 23.8 System Requirements.
23.8.1 General.                                                       single system or be a combination of component subsystems.

23.8.1.1* Presignal Feature.                                          23.8.2.2 Except as permitted in 23.8.2.3, the alarm and signal-
23.8.1.1.1 Systems that have a presignal feature complying            ingsystem components shall be permitted to share control
with 23.8.1.1 shall be permitted if approved by the authority         equipment or shall be able to operate as stand-alone subsys-
having jurisdiction.                                                  tems, but shall be arranged to function as a single system in
                                                                      accordance with 23.8.2.4 through 23.8.2.10.

23.8.1.1.2 A presignal feature shall meet the following condi-        23.8.2.3 Where the building is not served by a building fire
tions:                                                                alarm system, independent dedicated function fire alarm
(1) The initial fire alarm signals sound only in department           systems and/or releasing fire alarm systems shall not be
                                                                      required to be interconnected to function as a single system.
       offices, control rooms, fire brigade stations, or other
       constantly attended central locations.

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                       PROTECTED PREMISES ALARM AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                         72-131

23.8.2.4 All component subsystems shall be capable of simulta-                      23.8.2.8 Interconnected fire alarm control unit alarm signals
neous, full-load operation without degradation of the required                      shall be permitted to be monitored by zone or by combined
overall system performance.                                                         common signals.

23.8.2.5 The method of interconnection of fire alarm control  23.8.2.9 Protected premises alarm control units shall be capa-
units shall meet the monitoring requirements of Section 12.6                        ble of being reset or silenced only from the protected premises,
and NFPA 70, Article 760, and shall be achieved by the follow-                      unless otherwise permitted by 23.8.2.10.
ing recognized means:
                                                                                    23.8.2.9.1 Where multiple control units of the same manufac-
(1) Electrical contacts listed for the connected load                               turer are interconnected in a network arrangement and serve
(2) Data communications over a signaling line circuit(s)                            the same protected premises, the control units shall be
                                                                                    arranged to be reset or silenced from one location.
       dedicated to the fire alarm or shared with other premises
operating systems
   (3) Other listed methods                                                            23.8.2.9.2 Where multiple control units of the different manu-
   23.8.2.6 Where the signaling line circuit is shared by other                        facturers are interconnected in accordance with 23.8.2.5
   premises operating systems, operation shall be in accordance                        through 23.8.2.8 and serve the same protected premises, the
                                                                                       control units shall be permitted to be reset or silenced individ-
Y with 23.8.4.                                                                         ually at each control unit.
L 23.8.2.6.1 All signal control and transport equipment (such as                       23.8.2.9.3 Resetting procedures shall be documented and
                                                                                       permanently posted beside each control unit and annunciator.
   routers and servers) located in a critical fire alarm or emer-                      23.8.2.10 Remote resetting and silencing of a fire alarm
                                                                                       control unit from other than the protected premises shall be
N gency control function interface device signaling path shall be                      permitted with the approval of the authority having jurisdic-
                                                                                       tion.
   listed for fire alarm service, unless the following conditions are                  23.8.3 Protected Premises Alarm and Signaling Systems Inter-
                                                                                       connected with Dwelling Unit Fire and Carbon Monoxide
O met:                                                                                 Warning Equipment.
                                                                                     23.8.3.1 A protected premises system shall be permitted to be
   (1) The equipment meets the performance requirements of                             interconnected to the household warning equipment for the
                                                                                       purpose of actuating the notification appliances connected to
  E 10.3.5.                                                                            the household warning equipment.
                                                                                       23.8.3.2 The actuation of dwelling unit warning equipment
   (2) The equipment is provided with primary and secondary                            shall only be permitted to be displayed at the protected prem-
                                                                                       ises control unit and annunciators as supervisory signals.
  S power and monitored for integrity as required in                                 23.8.3.3 If interconnected, an alarm condition at the protec-
                                                                                       ted premises system shall cause the alarm notification appli-
           Section 10.6, 10.6.9, Section 10.19, and Section 12.6.                      ance(s) within the family living unit of the dwelling unit
                                                                                       warning equipment to become energizedand remain energized
U (3) All programming and configuration ensure a fire alarm                            until the protected premises system is silenced or reset.
           system actuation time as required in 10.11.1.                             23.8.3.4 The interconnection circuit or path from the protec-
                                                                                       ted premises system to the dwelling unit warning equipment
L (4) System bandwidth is monitored to confirm that all                                shall be monitored for integrity by the protected premises
           communications between equipment that is critical to the                    system in accordance with Section 12.6.
  A operation of the fire alarm system or emergency control                          23.8.3.5 An alarm condition occurring at the dwelling unit
           function interface devices take place within 10 seconds;                    fire warning equipment or the operation of any test switches
                                                                                       provided as part of the dwelling unit warning equipment shall
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U failure shall be indicated within 200 seconds.                     not cause an alarm condition at the protected premises system.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (5) Failure of any equipment that is critical to the operation

  ID of the fire alarm system or emergency control function

           interface devices is indicated at the master fire alarm

  IV control unit within 200 seconds.

   23.8.2.6.2 A listed barrier gateway, integral with or attached to
   each control unit or group of control units, as appropriate,

D shall be provided to prevent the other systems from interfering

   with or controlling the fire alarm system.

IN 23.8.2.6.3 Where Class N is utilized for shared equipment, the

   requirements in 23.6.3 shall also apply.

R  23.8.2.7 Each interconnected alarm control unit shall be sepa-
   rately monitored for alarm, supervisory, and trouble conditions
Owith supervised pathways that are in accordance with the manu-

Ffacturers' published instructions.
 23.8.2.7.1 Alarm conditions on interconnected alarm control                           23.8.4 Combination Systems.
   units shall annunciate as alarm signals and initiate the evacua-                    23.8.4.1* Fire alarm systems shall be permitted to share
   tion signals.                                                                       components, equipment, circuitry, and installation wiring with
                                                                                       non­fire alarm systems.
 23.8.2.7.2 Supervisory conditions on interconnected alarm                          N 23.8.4.2 Building System Information Unit (BSIU).
   control units shall annunciate as supervisory signals.                           N 23.8.4.2.1* A building system information unit (BSIU) shall
                                                                                       be listed to product safety standard ANSI/UL 60950, Informa-
 23.8.2.7.3 Trouble conditions on interconnected alarm                                 tion Technology Equipment -- Part 1: General Requirements, or
   control units shall annunciate as trouble signals.                                  ANSI/UL 62368-1 Audio/Video, Information and Communication
   23.8.2.7.4* Where supervised pathways between interconnec-                          Technology Equipment -- Part 1: Safety Requirements, or equivalent.
   ted fire alarm control units is not achievable, a supervised
   annunciator shall be installed adjacent to control unit(s) to
   annunciate the status of the each control unit.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-132                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N 23.8.4.2.2 Where a BSIU provides control of the fire alarm                   23.8.4.5.2 Grounds in this equipment, or between this equip-
system, the requirements in 23.8.4.2.2.1 through 23.8.4.2.2.4                  ment and the fire alarm system pathways, shall be reported,
shall also apply.                                                              annunciated, and corrected in the same manner as grounds in
                                                                               the rest of the fire alarm system.
N 23.8.4.2.2.1 A fire alarm control unit (FACU) controlling the
fire alarm system shall be located within the same room as the                 23.8.4.5.3 Removal, replacement, failure, maintenance proce-
BSIU.                                                                          dures, or ground on this hardware, software, or circuits shall
                                                                               not impair the required operation of the fire alarm system.
N 23.8.4.2.2.2* The BSIU shall not be permitted to perform fire
alarm system control features that cannot be accomplished by                   23.8.4.6 Loudspeakers used as alarm notification appliances
the FACU within the room.                                                      on fire alarm systems shall also be permitted to be used for
                                                                                  emergency communications systems when installed in accord-
N 23.8.4.2.2.3 The communication path from the FACU and the                       ance with Chapter 24.
   BSIU shall meet the requirements of 23.8.4.4.1 through                         23.8.4.7* In combination systems, fire alarm signals shall be
   23.8.4.4.3.                                                                    distinctive, clearly recognizable, and shall be indicated as
                                                                                  follows in descending order of priority, except where otherwise
N 23.8.4.2.2.4 The application software for the BSIU shall be                     required by other governing laws, codes or standards, or by
                                                                                  other parts of this Code:
Y listed to ANSI/UL 864, Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm             (1) Signals associated with life safety
L Systems.                                                                        (2) Signals associated with property protection
                                                                                  (3) Trouble signals associated with life and/or property
   23.8.4.3 Operation of a non­fire system function(s) originat-
                                                                                         protection
N ing within a connected non-fire system shall not interfere with                 (4) All other signals
                                                                                  23.8.4.8 If the authority having jurisdiction determines that
   the required operation of the fire alarm system, unless other-                 the information being displayed or annunciated on a combina-
                                                                                  tion system is excessive and is causing confusion and delayed
O wise permitted by this Code.                                                    response to a fire emergency, the authority having jurisdiction
                                                                                  shall be permitted to require that the display or annunciation
   23.8.4.4* For non­fire alarm equipment listed to the perform-                  of information for the fire alarm system be separate from, and
                                                                                  have priority in accordance with, 23.8.4.7, over information for
E ance requirements specified in 10.3.5, the requirements of                      the non­fire alarm systems.
                                                                                  23.8.4.9* Carbon Monoxide Detector Signals. Unless other-
   23.8.4.4.1 through 23.8.4.4.3 shall apply.                                     wise permitted by 23.8.4.9.1, signals from carbon monoxide
                                                                                  detectors and carbon monoxide detection systems transmitted
S 23.8.4.4.1 The equipment shall be permitted to be attached to                   to a fire alarm system shall be indicated as a carbon monoxide
U a fire alarm circuit, either among the fire alarm devices or as a               alarm signal.
                                                                               N 23.8.4.9.1 When in accordance with the emergency response
   branch or extension of the fire alarm pathways, when the                       plan, evacuation plan, fire safety plan, or similar documenta-
                                                                                  tion, signals from carbon monoxide detectors and carbon
L following requirements are met:                                                 monoxide detection systems transmitted to a fire alarm system
                                                                                  shall be permitted to be supervisory signals.
   (1) All the equipment and pathways shall meet the monitor-                     23.8.4.9.2* Fire alarm system processing for and occupant
                                                                                  response to carbon monoxide alarm signals shall be in accord-
 A ing for integrity requirements of 10.6.9, Section 10.19,                       ance with the emergency response plan, evacuation plan, fire
                                                                                  safety plan, or similar documentation.
          and Section 12.6.                                                    N 23.8.4.9.3 Where carbon monoxide warning equipment is
                                                                                  connected to a protected premises fire alarm system, receipt of
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (2) All the equipment and pathways shall be maintained by a   signals shall initiate the signal required by Section 18.4.
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} single service organization.

ID (3) All the equipment and pathways shall be installed in
          accordance with the requirements of this Code.

IV (4) All the equipment shall be listed as compatible with the
          fire alarm equipment or the equipment shall have an
          interface listed as compatible with the fire alarm equip-
 D ment.
   23.8.4.4.2 If the equipment is attached to the fire alarm

IN system via separate pathways, then short circuits or open

   circuits in this equipment, or between this equipment and the
   fire alarm system pathways, shall not impede or impair the

R monitoring for integrity of the fire alarm system or prevent

   alarm, supervisory, or fire safety control signal transmissions.

O 23.8.4.4.3 Grounds in this equipment, or between this equip-
Fment and the fire alarm system pathways, shall be reported,

   annunciated, and corrected in the same manner as grounds in
the rest of the fire alarm system.                                             N 23.8.4.9.4 Operation of carbon monoxide alarms or detectors
                                                                                 shall not cause fire alarm or combination control units to
23.8.4.5 For non-fire equipment not listed to the performance                    actuate either protected premises or supervising station fire
requirements specified in 10.3.5, the requirements of 23.8.4.5.1                 alarm signals.
through 23.8.4.5.3 shall apply                                                 · 23.8.4.10* Signals from a fire extinguisher electronic monitor-
23.8.4.5.1 Short circuits or open circuits in the equipment, or                  ing device or fire extinguisher monitoring system transmitted
between the equipment and the fire alarm system pathways,                        to a fire alarm system shall be permitted to be supervisory
shall not impede or impair the monitoring for integrity of the                   signals.
fire alarm system or prevent alarm, supervisory, or fire safety
control signal transmissions.

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                  PROTECTED PREMISES ALARM AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                             72-133

23.8.5 Fire Alarm System Inputs.                                                      23.8.5.4.2 If automatic drift compensation of sensitivity for a
                                                                                      fire detector is provided, the fire alarm control unit shall iden-
23.8.5.1 General.                                                                     tify the affected detector when the limit of compensation is

23.8.5.1.1 All initiating devices shall be installed in accord-                       reached.

ance with Chapter 17 and tested in accordance with Chap-                              23.8.5.4.3 Systems that require the operation of two automatic
ter 14.                                                                               detectors to initiate the alarm response shall be permitted,

23.8.5.1.2* Where connected to a supervising station, fire                            provided that the following conditions are satisfied:

alarm systems employing automatic fire detectors or waterflow                         (1) The systems are not prohibited by the authority having
detection devices shall include a manual fire alarm box to
initiate a signal to the supervising station.                                         jurisdiction.
                                                                                      (2) At least two automatic detectors are in each protected
                                                                                             space.
N 23.8.5.1.3 Fire alarm systems dedicated to elevator recall                          (3) The alarm verification feature is not used.
   control and supervisory service as permitted in Section 21.3                       23.8.5.4.4 For systems that require the operation of two auto-
   shall not be required to meet 23.8.5.1.2.                                          matic detectors to initiate emergency control functions or to
                                                                                      actuate fire extinguishing or suppression systems, the detectors
Y 23.8.5.2 Fire Alarm Signal Initiation -- Manual. Manual fire                        shall be installed at the spacing determined in accordance with
                                                                                      Chapter 17.
   alarm signal initiation shall comply with the requirements of                      23.8.5.4.5 For systems that require the operation of two auto-
                                                                                      matic detectors to actuate public mode notification, the detec-
L Section 17.15.                                                                      tors shall be installed at a linear spacing not more than
N 23.8.5.2.1 If signals from manual fire alarm boxes and other                        0.7 times the linear spacing determined in accordance with
                                                                                      Chapter 17.
   fire alarm initiating devices within a building are transmitted                    23.8.5.4.6 Signal Initiation -- Duct Smoke Detectors.
                                                                                      23.8.5.4.6.1 Where duct smoke detectors are required to be
O over the same signaling line circuit, there shall be no interfer-                   monitored and a building fire alarm system is installed, a duct
                                                                                      detector activation signal shall meet the requirements of 21.7.4.
   ence with manual fire alarm box signals when both types of                         23.8.5.4.6.2 Where duct smoke detectors are connected to a
   initiating devices are operated at the same time.                                  protected premises fire alarm system, the operation of the
                                                                                      power circuit shall meet the requirements of 23.4.2.2.
E 23.8.5.2.2 Provision of the shunt noninterfering method of                          23.8.5.4.6.3* Where duct smoke detectors with separate power
S operation shall be permitted for this performance.                                  and signal wiring are installed and connected to a protected
                                                                                      premises fire alarm system, they shall meet the requirements of
   23.8.5.3 Fire Alarm Signal Initiation -- Initiating Devices with                   23.8.5.3.
                                                                                      23.8.5.4.6.4 Where duct smoke detectors are not resettable
U Separate Power and Signaling Wiring.                                                from the protected premises fire alarm system, a listed alarm/
L 23.8.5.3.1 Automatic fire alarm signal initiating devices that                      supervisory indicator with an integral reset switch shall be
                                                                                      provided in an accessible location.
   have integral trouble signal contacts shall be connected to the                    23.8.5.5* Fire Alarm Signal Initiation -- Sprinkler Systems.
                                                                                      23.8.5.5.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or
A initiating device circuit so that a trouble condition within a                      standards to be electronically monitored, waterflow alarm-
                                                                                      initiating devices shall be connected to a dedicated function
   device does not impair alarm transmission from any other                           fire alarm control unit designated as "sprinkler waterflow and
                                                                                      supervisory system" and permanently identified on the control
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U initiating device, unless the trouble condition is caused by elec-unit and record drawings.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} trical disconnection of the device or by removing the initiating

ID device from its plug-in base.

   23.8.5.3.2* Automatic fire alarm signal initiating devices that

IV use a nonintegral device to monitor the integrity of the power

   supply wiring to the individual initiating devices shall have the
   nonintegral device connected to the initiating device circuit so

D that a fault on the power supply wiring does not impair alarm

   transmission from any operational initiating device.

IN 23.8.5.4 Fire Alarm Signal Initiation -- Detection Devices.

   23.8.5.4.1* Systems equipped with alarm verification features

R shall be permitted under the following conditions:

   (1) The alarm verification feature is not initially enabled,

 Ounless conditions or occupant activities that are expected
F to cause nuisance alarms are anticipated in the area that
       is protected by the smoke detectors. Enabling of the       N 23.8.5.5.2 Waterflow alarm-initiating devices connected to a
       alarm verification feature shall be protected by password     building alarm system shall not be required to meet the
       or limited access.                                            requirements of 23.8.5.5.1.
(2) A smoke detector that is continuously subjected to a
smoke concentration above alarm threshold does not                                    23.8.5.5.3* The number of waterflow alarm-initiating devices
delay the system functions of Sections 10.7 through 10.17,                            permitted to be connected to a single initiating device circuit
or 21.2.1 by more than 1 minute.                                                      shall not exceed five.
(3) Actuation of an alarm-initiating device other than a
       smoke detector causes the system functions of Sections                         23.8.5.5.4 If a valve is installed in the connection between a
       10.7 through 10.17, or 21.2.1 without additional delay.                        sprinkler system and an initiating device, the valve shall be
                                                                                      supervised in accordance with 17.17.1.
(4) The current status of the alarm verification feature is
shown on the record of completion [see Figure 7.8.2(a),
item 4.3].

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-134                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

23.8.5.6* Supervisory Signal Initiation -- Sprinkler Systems.                      23.8.5.10.2 Fire alarm and supervisory signals generated at the
                                                                                   releasing service fire alarm control unit shall be annunciated at
23.8.5.6.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or                       a protected premises fire alarm unit.
standards to be electronically monitored, supervisory signal­
initiating devices shall be connected to a dedicated function                      23.8.5.10.3 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or
fire alarm control unit designated as "sprinkler waterflow and                     standards, actuation of any suppression system connected to a
supervisory system" and permanently identified on the control                      releasing service fire alarm control unit shall be annunciated at
unit and record drawings.                                                          the protected premises fire alarm control unit, even where the
                                                                                   system actuation is by manual means or otherwise accom-
N 23.8.5.6.2 Supervisory signal­initiating devices connected to a                  plished without actuation of the releasing service fire alarm
   building alarm system shall not be required to meet the                         control unit.
   requirements of 23.8.5.6.1.
                                                                                      23.8.5.10.4 If a valve is installed in the connection between a
23.8.5.6.3* The number of supervisory signal­initiating devi-                         suppression system and an initiating device, the valve shall be
ces permitted to be connected to a single initiating device                           supervised in accordance with Chapter 17.
circuit shall not exceed 20.                                                          23.8.5.10.5 In facilities that are not required to install a
                                                                                      protected premises fire alarm system, the alarm and supervi-
Y 23.8.5.6.4* If a valve is installed in the connection between a                     sory devices shall be connected to the releasing service fire
L sprinkler system and an initiating device, the valve shall be                       alarm control unit, and their actuation shall be annunciated at
                                                                                      the releasing service control unit.
supervised in accordance with 17.17.1 unless the valve is                             23.8.5.11 Trouble Signal Initiation.
                                                                                    23.8.5.11.1 Automatic fire suppression system alarm-initiating
N arranged to cause operation of the supervisory signal initiating                    devices and supervisory signal­initiating devices and their
                                                                                      circuits shall be designed and installed so that they cannot be
device when it is in its off-normal position.                                         subject to tampering, opening, or removal without initiating a
                                                                                      signal.
O 23.8.5.7 Alarm Signal Initiation -- Fire Suppression Systems                     N 23.8.5.11.2 Covers of junction boxes inside of buildings shall
                                                                                      not be required to meet the requirements of 23.8.5.11.1.
Other Than Sprinklers.                                                             N 23.8.5.11.3 The requirements of 23.8.5.11.1shall apply to junc-
                                                                                      tion boxes and device covers installed outside of buildings to
E 23.8.5.7.1 Where required by other governing laws, codes, or                        facilitate access to the initiating device circuit unless tamper-
                                                                                      resistant screws or other approved mechanical means are used
standards to be monitored and a building fire alarm system is                         for preventing access.
                                                                                      23.8.5.11.4 The integrity of each fire suppression system
S installed, the actuation of a fire suppression system shall                         actuating device and its circuit shall be supervised in accord-
                                                                                      ance with 12.6.1 and 12.6.2 and with other applicable NFPA
annunciate an alarm or supervisory condition at the building                          standards.
                                                                                   N 23.8.5.12 Disconnect Switches and Disable Functions. Opera-
U fire alarm control unit.                                                            tion of any disconnect switch or disable function associated
L 23.8.5.7.2 The integrity of each fire suppression system actuat-                    with the fire alarm system, when in the off-normal condition,
                                                                                      shall be indicated at the building fire alarm control unit or at a
ing device and its circuit shall comply with 12.6.1, 12.6.2, and                      dedicated function(s) fire alarm control unit if provided.
                                                                                      23.8.6 Alarm System Notification Outputs.
A other applicable NFPA standards.                                                    23.8.6.1 Occupant Notification.
                                                                                   N 23.8.6.1.1 Fire alarm systems provided for evacuation or relo-
23.8.5.7.3 If a valve is installed in the connection between a                        cation of occupants shall have one or more notification appli-
                                                                                      ances listed for the purpose in each notification zone of the
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U suppression system and an initiating device, the valve shall be

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} supervised in accordance with 17.17.1.

ID 23.8.5.8* Supervisory Signal Initiation -- Fire Suppression

Systems Other Than Sprinklers.

IV 23.8.5.8.1 Where required to be monitored and a building

fire alarm system is installed, an off-normal condition of a fire

D suppression system shall annunciate a supervisory condition at

the building fire alarm control unit.

IN 23.8.5.8.2 Supervisory signals that latch in the off-normal state

and require manual reset of the system to restore them to
normal shall be permitted.

R 23.8.5.8.3 If a valve is installed in the connection between a
O suppression system and an initiating device, the valve shall be

supervised in accordance with 17.17.1.

F23.8.5.9 Signal Initiation -- Fire Pump.

23.8.5.9.1 Where fire pumps are required to be monitored                           building and be so located that they have the characteristics
                                                                                   described in Chapter 18 for public mode or private mode, as
and a building fire alarm system is installed, a pump running                      required.
signal shall be permitted to be a supervisory or alarm signal.

23.8.5.9.2 Where fire pumps are required to be monitored                           N 23.8.6.1.2 Except as permitted in 23.8.6.1.3, occupant notifica-
and a building fire alarm system is installed, signals other than                     tion of carbon monoxide systems shall be throughout the
pump running shall be supervisory signals.                                            protected premises.

23.8.5.10 Fire Alarm and Supervisory Signal Initiation --                          N 23.8.6.1.3 Where carbon monoxide alarm signals are transmit-
Releasing Fire Alarm Systems.                                                         ted to a constantly attended on-site location or off-premises
23.8.5.10.1 Releasing service fire alarm control units shall be                       location in accordance with this chapter, selective public mode
connected to the protected premises fire alarm system.                                occupant notification shall be permitted to be limited to the

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

PROTECTED PREMISES ALARM AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                                   72-135

notification zone encompassing the area where the carbon            23.10.2* Fire alarm systems used for partial evacuation and
monoxide alarm signal was initiated.                                  relocation shall be designed and installed such that attack by
23.8.6.2* Notification Appliances in Exit Stair Enclosures, Exit      fire within a notification zone shall not impair control and
Passageways, and Elevator Cars. Notification appliances shall         operation of the notification appliances outside that notifica-
not be required in exit stair enclosures, exit passageways, and       tion zone.
elevator cars in accordance with 23.8.6.2.1 through 23.8.6.2.4
unless required by other codes and standards.                      N 23.10.3 Performance features provided to ensure survivability
23.8.6.2.1 Visual signals shall not be required in exit stair         shall be described and technical justification provided in the
enclosures and exit passageways.                                      documentation submitted to the authority having jurisdiction
23.8.6.2.2 Visual signals shall not be required in elevator cars.     with the evaluation required in 23.4.3.1.
                                                                      23.10.4 Loudspeakers that transmit tone signals shall be
                                                                      permitted to be used as fire alarm notification appliances.

   23.8.6.2.3 The emergency evacuation signal specified in 18.4.2                23.11 Suppression System Actuation.
   shall not be required to automatically operate in exit stair                  23.11.1 Releasing service fire alarm control units used for
   enclosures and exit passageways.                                              automatic or manual activation of a fire suppression system
                                                                                 shall be listed for releasing service.
Y 23.8.6.2.4 The emergency evacuation signal specified in 18.4.2                 23.11.2 Releasing devices for suppression systems shall be
L shall not be required to automatically operate in elevator cars.               listed for use with releasing service control units.
N 23.8.6.3 Notification Zones.                                                   23.11.3 Each releasing device (e.g., solenoid, relay) shall be
                                                                                 monitored for integrity (supervised) in accordance with appli-
   23.8.6.3.1 Notification zones shall be consistent with the emer-              cable NFPA standards.
                                                                                 23.11.4 The installation wiring shall be monitored for integ-
O gency response or evacuation plan for the protected premises.                  rity in accordance with the requirements of Section 12.6.
                                                                                 23.11.5 Releasing service fire alarm systems used for fire
   23.8.6.3.2 The boundaries of fire alarm notification zones                    suppression­releasing service shall be provided with a discon-
                                                                                 nect switch to allow the system to be tested without actuating
E shall be coincident with building outer walls, building fire or                the fire suppression systems.
                                                                                 23.11.5.1 Operation of a disconnect switch or a disable func-
   smoke compartment boundaries, floor separations, or other                     tion shall cause a supervisory signal at the releasing service fire
                                                                                 alarm control unit.
S fire safety subdivisions.                                                      23.11.5.2 The disconnect shall be a physical switch and not be
U N 23.8.6.3.3* The boundaries of carbon monoxide alarm notifi-                  accomplished by using software.
                                                                                 23.11.5.3 Software disconnects, even if actuated by dedicated
   cation zones shall be coincident with the area where the alarm                buttons or key switches, shall not be permitted as a method to
                                                                                 secure a suppression system from inadvertent discharge.
L initiation originated and other notification zones in accord-                  23.11.6 Sequence of operation shall be consistent with the
                                                                                 applicable suppression system standards.
   ance with the building's emergency response plan.                             23.11.7* Each space protected by an automatic fire suppres-
                                                                                 sion system actuated by the fire alarm system shall contain one
A 23.8.6.4 Circuits for Addressable Notification Appliances.                     or more automatic fire detectors installed in accordance with
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 23.8.6.4.1 Circuit configuration for addressable notificationChapter 17.
                                                                                 23.11.8 Suppression systems or groups of systems shall be
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} appliances shall comply with the applicable performance    controlled by a single releasing service fire alarm control unit

ID requirements for notification zones.

   23.8.6.4.2 Where there are addressable notification appliances

IV on a signaling line circuit that serves different notification

   zones, a single open, short-circuit, or ground on that signaling
   line circuit shall not affect operation of more than one notifica-

D tion zone.
IN 23.8.6.4.3 Riser conductors installed in accordance with

   24.4.8.6.3 that are monitored for integrity shall not be required
   to operate in accordance with 23.8.6.4.2.

R 23.9 In-Building Emergency Voice/Alarm Communications.
O23.9.1 In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communica-
Ftions shall meet the requirements of Chapter 24.
N 23.9.2 Where a voice/alarm communications system is instal-                    that monitors the associated initiating device(s), actuates the
                                                                                 associated releasing device(s), and controls the associated
led for the purpose of occupant notification related to carbon                   agent release notification appliances.
monoxide detection, it shall meet the requirements of
Section 24.4 excluding the requirements of 24.4.8.6.
                                                                                 23.11.9 If the configuration of multiple control units is listed
                                                                                 for releasing device service, and if a trouble condition or
23.9.3 All live voice communications systems shall meet the                      manual disconnect on either control unit causes a trouble or
requirements of Chapter 24.                                                      supervisory signal, the initiating device on one control unit
23.9.4 Two-Way Communication Service. Two-way communi-                           shall be permitted to actuate releasing devices on another
cation service shall meet the requirements of Chapter 24.                        control unit in lieu of 23.11.8.

23.10 Fire Alarm Systems Using Tone.                                             23.11.10 If the releasing service fire alarm control unit is loca-
23.10.1 The requirements of Section 23.10 shall apply to tone                    ted in a protected premises having a separate fire alarm system,
and visual notification appliance circuits.                                      it shall be monitored for alarm, supervisory, and trouble

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-136                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

signals, but shall not be dependent on or affected by the opera-  23.14.4 The system shall automatically transmit a delinquency
tion or failure of the protected premises fire alarm system.      signal within 15 minutes after the predetermined actuation
23.11.11 Releasing fire alarm systems performing suppression      time if the guard fails to actuate a tour station as scheduled.
system releasing functions shall be installed in such a manner    23.14.5 A finish signal shall be transmitted within a predeter-
that they are effectively protected from damage caused by acti-   mined interval after the guard's completion of each tour of the
vation of the suppression system(s) they control.                 premises.

23.12 Off-Premises Signals.                                       23.14.6 For periods of over 24 hours during which tours are
                                                                  continuously conducted, a start signal shall be transmitted at
23.12.1 Systems requiring transmission of signals to continu-     least every 24 hours.
ously attended locations providing supervising station service
(e.g., central station, proprietary supervising station, remote   23.14.7 The start, delinquency, and finish signals shall be
supervising station) shall also comply with the applicable        recorded at the signal-receiving location.
requirements of Chapter 26.
23.12.2 Relays or modules providing transmission of trouble       23.15 Protected Premises Emergency Control Functions.

Y signals to a supervising station shall be arranged to provide fail-23.15.1 Emergency Elevator Operations. Emergency elevator
L safe operation.                                                 operations shall meet the requirements of Sections 21.3, 21.4,
                                                                  21.5, and 21.6.
23.12.3 Means provided to transmit trouble signals to super-
                                                                  23.15.2 HVAC Systems. HVAC systems shall meet the require-
N vising stations shall be arranged so as to transmit a trouble   ments of Section 21.7.

signal to the supervising station for any trouble condition       23.15.3 Door Release Service. Door release service shall meet
                                                                  the requirements of Section 21.9.
O received at the protected premises control unit, including loss
                                                                  23.15.4 Electrically Locked Doors. Door-unlocking devices
of primary or secondary power.                                    shall meet the requirements of Section 21.10.

E 23.12.4* It shall be permitted to provide supplementary trans-  23.15.5 Exit Marking Audible Notification Systems. Exit
                                                                  marking audible notification systems shall meet the require-
mission of real-time data from the fire system to off-premises    ments of Section 21.11.

S equipment.
U 23.12.4.1 Transmission of real-time data off-premises shall not

affect the operation or response of the fire alarm control unit.

L 23.12.4.2 Any data transmitted shall be consistent with the

data generated by the system.

A 23.13 Guard's Tour Supervisory Service.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 23.13.1 Guard's tour reporting stations shall be listed for the
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} application.

23.13.2 The number of guard's tour reporting stations, their

IV locations, and the route to be followed by the guard for operat-

ing the stations shall be approved for the particular installation
in accordance with NFPA 601.

D 23.13.3 A permanent record indicating every time each signal-

transmitting station is operated shall be made at a protected

IN premises fire alarm control unit.

23.13.4 Where intermediate stations that do not transmit a
signal are employed in conjunction with signal-transmitting

R stations, distinctive signals shall be transmitted at the beginning

and end of each tour of a guard.

O 23.13.5 A signal-transmitting station shall be provided at inter-
Fvals not exceeding 10 intermediate stations.
                                                                  N 23.15.6 Carbon Monoxide. Where provided, carbon monox-
                                                                     ide control functions shall comply with the requirements of
                                                                     21.7.6.

                                                                  23.16* Special Requirements for Low-Power Radio (Wireless)
                                                                  Systems.

                                                                  23.16.1* Listing   Requirements. Compliance            with
                                                                  Section 23.16 shall require the use of low-power radio equip-
                                                                  ment specifically listed for the purpose.

                                                                   23.16.2* Power Supplies. A primary battery(s) (dry cell) that
                                                                     meet the requirements of 23.16.2.1 or 23.16.2.2 shall be
                                                                     permitted to be used as the sole power source for devices incor-
                                                                     porating a low-power radio transmitter/transceiver.

                                                                  N 23.16.2.1 The following conditions shall be met when one or
                                                                     more primary batteries are utilized and a catastrophic (open or
                                                                     short) single battery failure affects the alarm operation of the
                                                                     device:
                                                                     (1) Each transmitter/transceiver shall serve only one device
                                                                            and shall be individually identified at the system control
                                                                            unit.
                                                                  (2) The battery(s) shall be capable of operating the low-
23.13.6 Intermediate stations that do not transmit a signal       power radio transmitter/transceiver and its associated
shall be capable of operation only in a fixed sequence.           device for not less than 1 year before the battery deple-

23.14 Suppressed (Exception Reporting) Signal System.             tion threshold is reached.

23.14.1 The suppressed signal system shall comply with the        (3) A low battery signal shall be transmitted before the device
provisions of 23.13.2.                                                   is no longer capable of providing 7 days of trouble signal
                                                                         operation followed by the signaling of a single non-
23.14.2 The system shall transmit a start signal to the signal-   trouble response.
receiving location.                                               (4) The low battery signal shall be distinctive from alarm,
                                                                  supervisory, tamper, and trouble signals, shall visibly iden-
23.14.3 The start signal shall be initiated by the guard at the   tify the affected low-power radio transmitter/transceiver,
start of continuous tour rounds.                                  and, when silenced, shall automatically re-sound at least

                                                                  once every 4 hours.

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

       PROTECTED PREMISES ALARM AND SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                                               72-137

(5) Catastrophic (open or short) battery failure shall cause a                    23.16.3.1.5* An alarm signal from a low-power radio transmit-
       trouble signal identifying the affected low-power radio                    ter/transceiver shall latch at the fire alarm control system until
       transmitter/transceiver at the system control unit. When                   manually reset and shall identify the particular initiating device
       silenced, the trouble signal shall automatically re-sound at               in alarm.
          least once every 4 hours.
   (6) Any mode of failure of a primary battery in a low-power       N 23.16.3.1.6 Sixty seconds after the conclusion of resetting the
                                                                        fire alarm system, a non-restored actuated low-power radio
          radio transmitter/transceiver shall not affect any other      transmitter/transceiver shall be identified at the fire alarm
          low-power radio transmitter/transceiver.                      systems.
N 23.16.2.2 The following conditions shall be met when multi-
   ple batteries are utilized and a catastrophic (open or short)     ·
                                                                        23.16.4 Monitoring for Integrity.

single battery failure does not affect the alarm operation of the                 23.16.4.1 The low-power radio transmitter/transceiver shall
   device:
   (1) Two or more batteries shall be provided.                                   be specifically listed as using a communication method that is
   (2) The combined batteries shall be capable of operating the                   highly resistant to misinterpretation of simultaneous transmis-
                                                                                  sions and to interference (e.g., impulse noise and adjacent
  Y low-power radio transmitter/transceiver and its associated                    channel interference).
                                                                                  23.16.4.2 The occurrence of any single fault that disables
          device for not less than 1 year before the battery deple-               communication between any low-power radio transmitter/
                                                                                  transceiver and the receiver/transceiver system control unit
  L tion threshold in 23.16.2.2(3) is reached.                                    shall cause a latching trouble signal within 200 seconds at the
                                                                                  system control unit that individually identifies the affected
   (3) A low battery signal shall be transmitted before the device                device.
                                                                                  23.16.4.3 A single fault on the signaling channel shall not
  N is no longer capable of providing 7 days of trouble signal                    cause an alarm signal.
                                                                                  23.16.4.4 The periodic communication required to comply
          operation followed by the signaling of a single non-                    with 23.16.4.2 shall ensure successful alarm transmission capa-
                                                                                  bility.
  O trouble response.                                                             23.16.4.5 Removal of a low-power radio transmitter/trans-
                                                                                  ceiver from its installed location shall cause immediate trans-
   (4) Each individual battery, primary and secondary, shall be                   mission of a distinctive trouble signal that indicates its removal
          separately monitored for the battery depletion threshold,               and individually identifies the affected device.
                                                                                  23.16.4.6 Reception of any unwanted (interfering) transmis-
  E and a low battery signal shall be transmitted when an                         sion by a retransmission device or by the receiver system
  S individual battery has reached the battery depletion                          control unit for a continuous period of 20 seconds or more
                                                                                  shall cause an audible and visible trouble indication at the
          threshold.                                                              system control unit.
                                                                                  23.16.4.7 The indication required by 23.16.4.6 shall identify
U (5) Following the failure of a single battery, the remaining                    the specific trouble condition as an interfering signal.
          battery(s) shall be capable of operating the low-power                  23.16.5 Output Signals from a Wireless Receiver/Transceiver
          radio transmitter/transceiver and its associated device for             of a Control Unit. Wherea wireless receiver/transceiver of a
  L not less than 7 days when the battery depletion threshold                     control unit is used to actuate remote devices, such as notifica-
          in 23.16.2.2(3) is reached.                                             tion appliances and relays, by wireless means, the remote devi-
                                                                                  ces shall meet the following requirements:
A (6) The low battery signal shall be distinctive from alarm,                     (1) Power supplies shall comply with Chapter 10 or the
          supervisory, tamper, and trouble signals, shall visibly iden-
                                                                                         requirements of 23.16.2.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tify the affected low-power radio transmitter/transceiver,    (2) All monitoring for integrity requirements of Chapters 10,
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} and, when silenced, shall automatically re-sound at least
  ID once every 4 hours.

   (7) Catastrophic (open or short) failure of any individual

  IV battery shall cause a trouble signal identifying the affec-

          ted low-power radio transmitter/transceiver at the system
          control unit. When silenced, the trouble signal shall auto-

  D matically re-sound at least once every 4 hours.

   (8) Each transmitter/transceiver shall be permitted to serve

  IN more than one device and shall be individually identified

          at the system control unit.
   23.16.3 Alarm Signals.

R 23.16.3.1* When a wireless initiating device is actuated, its
Olow-power radio transmitter/transceiver shall comply with
F23.16.3.1.1 through 23.16.3.1.4.
N 23.16.3.1.1 It shall automatically transmit an alarm signal and                        12, 23, and 23.16.4 shall apply.
   be identified at the fire alarm system.                                        (3) Response time shall be in accordance with 10.11.1.
                                                                                  (4) Each wireless receiver/transceiver of a control unit shall
N 23.16.3.1.2 To ensure the receipt of an alarm signal by the                     automatically repeat actuated response signals associated
control unit, the low-power radio transmitter/transceiver shall                   with life safety events at intervals not exceeding
automatically repeat alarm transmissions at intervals not                         60 seconds or until confirmation that the output device
exceeding 60 seconds until the transmitter/transceiver receives                   has received the alarm signal.
a signal confirming receipt of the alarm signal by the control                    (5) The remote devices shall continue to operate (latch-in)
unit.                                                                             until manually reset at the system control unit.

23.16.3.1.3* Signals shall have priority in accordance with
23.8.4.7.

23.16.3.1.4 Response time shall be in accordance with 10.11.1.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-138                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Chapter 24 Emergency Communications Systems (ECS)                                   24.3.5 Ancillary Functions.

24.1 Application.                                                                   24.3.5.1 Ancillary functions shall not impair the required
                                                                                    operation of the emergency communications system.
24.1.1 The application, installation, and performance of
emergency communications systems and their components                               24.3.5.2* Loudspeakers used for emergency communications
shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.                                 system functions also providing ancillary functions shall meet
                                                                                    the conditions of either 24.3.5.2(1) or (2):
24.1.2* The requirements of this chapter shall apply to emer-
gency communications systems within buildings and outdoor                           (1) The fire command center or the emergency command
areas.                                                                                     center as applicable shall be constantly attended by
                                                                                           trained personnel, and selective paging is permitted by
                                                                                    the authority having jurisdiction.
24.1.3 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 12, 17, 18, 21, 23,                         (2) All of the following conditions shall be met:
26, and 27 shall also apply unless otherwise noted in this chap-                              (a) The loudspeakers and associated audio equipment
ter.                                                                                                  are installed or located with safeguards to resist
24.1.4 Inspection, testing, and maintenance shall be                                                  tampering or misadjustment of those components
                                                                                                      essential for intended emergency notification.
Y performed in accordance with testing frequencies and methods                                (b) The monitoring integrity requirements of 10.6.9
L in Chapter 14.                                                                                      and Sections 10.19 and 12.6 continue to be met
                                                                                                      while the system is used for non-emergency purpo-
24.1.5 The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to                                            ses.

N Chapter 29 unless specifically indicated.                                            24.3.5.3 Ancillary functions shall be inspected and tested
O 24.2 Purpose.                                                                        annually to verify they will not impair the operation of the fire
                                                                                       alarm system or the mass notification system.
24.2.1 The systems covered under Chapter 24 shall be for the                           24.3.5.4 Where emergency communications systems utilize
                                                                                       Class N pathways that are also shared Level 1 or Level 2 path-
E protection of life by indicating the existence of an emergency                       ways as a means to support ancillary functions, devices, or inter-
                                                                                       connected systems, the shared pathways shall meet the
situation and communicating information necessary to facili-                           requirements of 23.6.3.
                                                                                       24.3.5.4.1 In addition to the requirements of 23.6.3, a risk
S tate an appropriate response and action.                                             analysis shall be performed and approved by the AHJ.
                                                                                       24.3.6 Messages for One-Way Emergency Communications
24.2.2 This chapter establishes minimum required levels of                             Systems.
                                                                                       24.3.6.1* Messages shall be developed for each scenario devel-
U performance, reliability, and quality of installation for emer-                      oped in the emergency response plan.
                                                                                       24.3.6.2*
gency communications systems but does not establish the only                        N 24.3.6.2.1 Based on the emergency response plan, emergency
                                                                                       messages shall have content that provides information and
L methods by which these requirements are to be achieved.                              instructions to people in the building, area, site, or installation.
A 24.2.3 An emergency communications system is intended to                          N 24.3.6.2.2 The proposed verbiage of prerecorded automatic
                                                                                       emergency messages shall be identified on the permit plans
communicate information about emergencies including, but                               and be approved by the authority having jurisdiction prior to
                                                                                       their programming into the emergency voice communications
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U not limited to, fire, human-caused events (accidental and inten-   system.
                                                                                    N 24.3.6.2.3 As a minimum, the proposed verbiage of prerecor-
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tional), other dangerous situations, accidents, and natural

ID disasters.

24.3 General.

IV 24.3.1 Intelligible Voice Messages.

24.3.1.1* Emergency communications systems shall be capa-

D ble of the reproduction of prerecorded, synthesized, or live

(e.g., microphone, telephone handset, and radio) messages

IN with voice intelligibility in accordance with Chapter 18.

24.3.1.2* Where listed loudspeakers do not achieve the intelli-
gibility requirements of the Code for a notification zone,

R nonlisted loudspeakers shall be permitted to be installed to

achieve the intelligibility for that notification zone.

FO 24.3.2* Microphone Use. All users of systems that have micro-
phones for live voice announcements shall be provided with                          ded messages shall be in the official spoken language accepta-
posted instructions for using the microphone.                                       ble to the authority having jurisdiction.

24.3.3* Required Emergency Communications Systems. An           N 24.3.6.2.4 Additional prerecorded message(s) shall be permit-
emergency communications system shall be installed in occu-        ted as approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
pancies where required by the authority having jurisdiction or     24.3.6.3* A message template shall be developed for each
by other applicable governing laws, codes, or standards.           message required in 24.3.6.1.
24.3.4* Nonrequired (Voluntary) Emergency Communications           24.3.6.4 For an evacuation message, a tone in accordance with
Systems.                                                           18.4.2 shall be used with a minimum of two cycles preceding
24.3.4.1 Nonrequired emergency communications systems              and following the voice message.
and components shall meet the requirements of this chapter.        24.3.6.5 Test messages shall clearly state the phrase "This is a
24.3.4.2 Nonrequired emergency communications systems              test."
and components shall be identified on the record drawings.

2019 Edition       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                    EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (ECS)                                            72-139

24.3.7* System Classification. Emergency communications                      24.3.12* Risk Analysis for Mass Notification Systems.
systems (ECS) shall be designated as one-way or two-way.                     24.3.12.1* Each application of a mass notification system shall
24.3.7.1* One-way emergency communications systems shall                     be specific to the nature and anticipated risks of each facility
consist of one or more of the following:                                     for which it is designed.

(1) In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communications N 24.3.12.1.1 When an owner has developed a risk analysis in
systems (EVACS) (see Section 24.4)                                           accordance with 24.3.12, such risk analysis shall be permitted to
(2) In-building mass notification systems (see Section 24.5)
(3) Wide-area mass notification systems (see Section 24.6)                   be used as a baseline in preparing the risk analysis for new or
                                                                    renovated facilities that are similar in nature.
(4) Distributed recipient mass notification systems (DRMNS)
(see Section 24.7)                                                           24.3.12.2 The designer shall consider both fire and non-fire
                                                                    emergencies when determining risk tolerances for survivability
   24.3.7.2 Two-way emergency communications systems shall                   for the mass notification system.
   consist of one or more of the following:                                  24.3.12.3 The detail and complexity of the risk analysis shall
   (1) Two-way, in-building wired emergency services communi-                be commensurate with the complexity of the facility for which
                                                                             the mass notification system is designed.
  Y cations systems (see Section 24.8)                                       24.3.12.4 The risk analysis shall be permitted to be limited in
                                                                             scope to address the communication requirements of an exist-
   (2) Two-way radio communications enhancement systems (see                 ing emergency response plan.
                                                                             24.3.12.5 The risk analysis shall consider the number of
  L Section 24.9)                                                            persons, type of occupancy, and perceived peril to occupants.
                                                                             24.3.12.6 The analysis shall be based on the maximum occu-
   (3) Area of refuge (area of rescue assistance) emergency                  pant load calculation for every occupiable room, building,
                                                                             area, space, campus, or region is expected to contain.
  N communications systems (see Section 24.10)                               24.3.12.7 Occupancy characteristics shall comply with
                                                                             24.3.12.7.1 and 24.3.12.7.2.
   (4) Stairway communications systems (see Section 24.10)                   24.3.12.7.1 The risk analysis shall consider characteristics of
                                                                             the buildings, areas, spaces, campuses or regions, equipment,
O (5) Elevator landing communications systems (see                           and operations that are not inherent in the design specifica-
          Section 24.10)                                                     tions.
   (6) Occupant evacuation elevator lobby communications                     24.3.12.7.2 Those elements that are not inherent in the
                                                                             design specifications, but that affect occupant behavior or the
  E systems (see Section 24.10)                                              rate of hazard development, shall be explicitly identified and
S 24.3.8* Mass Notification Layers. Emergency communica-                     included in the risk analysis.
                                                                             24.3.12.8 The risk analysis shall consider the following types of
   tions used for mass notification shall be categorized into layers         potential events, which are not all-inclusive but reflect the
                                                                             general categories that shall be considered in the risk analysis:
U and take into consideration type of audience and reach as                  (1) Natural hazards -- Geological events
                                                                             (2) Natural hazards -- Meteorological events
   follows:                                                                  (3) Natural hazards -- Biological events
                                                                             (4) Human caused -- Accidental events
L (1) Layer 1 relates to means of notification of occupants by               (5) Human caused -- Intentional events
          systems/equipment installed inside a building and                  (6) Technological -- Caused events
  A controlled only by authorized users (in-building ECS)                    24.3.12.9 The risk analysis shall include a review of the extent
   (2) Layer 2 relates to means of notification of occupants on              to which occupants and personnel are notified, based on the

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the exterior of a building and controlled only by author-
  ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ized users (wide-area MNS)

   (3) Layer 3 relates to means of notification of personnel
          through individual measures (distributed recipient MNS)

IV (4) Layer 4 relates to means of notification of personnel by
          public measures (broadcast radio, television, and so
          forth)

D 24.3.9* Design Documentation. Design documents in accord-
IN ance with Section 7.3 shall be prepared prior to installation of

   any new system.
   24.3.9.1 Systems that are altered shall have design documents

R prepared that apply to the portions of the system that are

   altered.

O24.3.9.2 Documents shall be revised as necessary following
Finstallation to represent as-built conditions and include record
drawings.                                                                    anticipated event (potential hazard).

 24.3.10* Control Unit Listing for Mass Notification Systems.                24.3.12.10 The risk analysis shall be used as the basis for devel-
   Control units installed as part of a mass notification system             opment of the ECS provisions of the facility emergency
   shall be in compliance with this Code and at least one of the             response plan.
   following applicable standards:                                           24.3.13* Emergency Response Plan Elements. A well-defined
   (1) ANSI/UL 864, Standard for Control Units and Accessories for           emergency response plan shall be developed in accordance
           Fire Alarm Systems                                                with NFPA 1600 and NFPA 1620 as part of the design and
   (2) ANSI/UL 2572, Mass Notification Systems                               implementation of a mass notification system.

N 24.3.11 Building System Information Unit. A building system                24.3.14 Pathway Survivability.
   information unit that displays information and events from the            24.3.14.1 Pathway survivability levels shall be as described in
   mass notification system shall comply with 23.8.4.4.1 through             Section 12.4.
   23.8.4.4.3.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-140                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

24.3.14.2 Other component survivability shall comply with the                          24.3.14.12 All other emergency communications system
provisions of 24.4.8.6.6.                                                              circuits shall have pathway survivability as determined by the
                                                                                       risk analysis.
24.3.14.3* The pathway survivability requirements in 24.3.14.4
through 24.3.14.12 shall apply to notification and communica-                          24.4* In-Building Fire Emergency Voice/Alarm Communica-
tions circuits and other circuits necessary to ensure the contin-  tions Systems (EVACS). Section 24.4 shall be used in the
ued operation of the emergency communications system.                                  design and application of in-building fire emergency voice/
                                                                                       alarm communications for fire alarm systems.
24.3.14.4 In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communica-
tions systems shall comply with 24.3.14.4.1 or 24.3.14.4.2.                            24.4.1 Automatic Response. The in-building fire emergency
                                                                                       voice/alarm communications system shall be used to provide
   24.3.14.4.1 For systems employing relocation or partial evacu-                      an automatic response to the receipt of a signal indicative of a
   ation, a Level 2 or Level 3 pathway survivability shall be                          fire alarm or other emergency.
   required, unless otherwise permitted in 24.3.14.4.1.1 or                            24.4.1.1 When the monitoring location is constantly attended
   24.3.14.4.1.2.                                                                      by trained operators, and operator acknowledgment of receipt
N 24.3.14.4.1.1 Where notification zones are separated by less                         of a fire alarm or other emergency signal is received within
                                                                                       30 seconds, automatic response shall not be required.
Y than 2-hour fire-rated construction, a pathway survivability of                      24.4.1.2 If acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction, the
L Level 1, 2 or 3 shall be permitted.                                                  system shall permit the application of an automatic evacuation
                                                                                       signal to one or more signaling zones and, at the same time,
N 24.3.14.4.1.2 Where Class X or Class N system pathways are                           shall permit manual voice paging to the other signaling zones
                                                                                       selectively or in any combination.
N installed and the incoming and outgoing pathways are separa-                         24.4.2 Voice Evacuation Messages.
                                                                                       24.4.2.1 Unless otherwise permitted by 24.4.8, evacuation
   ted by at least one-third the maximum diagonal of the notifica-                     messages shall be preceded and followed by a minimum of two
                                                                                       cycles of the emergency evacuation signal specified in 18.4.2.
O tion zone, a pathway survivability of Level 1, 2 or 3 shall be                       24.4.2.2 Voice messages shall comply with the requirements of
                                                                                       24.3.1.
   permitted.                                                                          24.4.2.2.1 The following requirements shall be met for layout
                                                                                       and design:
E 24.3.14.4.2 For systems that do not employ relocation or                             (1) The loudspeaker layout of the system shall be designed to

   partial evacuation, a Level 0, Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 path-                          ensure intelligibility and audibility.
                                                                                       (2) Intelligibility shall first be determined by ensuring that all
S way survivability shall be permitted.
U · 24.3.14.5 Pathway survivability levels for in-building mass noti-                         areas in the building have the required level of audibility.
                                                                                       24.4.2.2.2* System design shall incorporate designation of
   fication systems shall be determined by the risk analysis.                          acoustically distinguishable spaces (ADS) within the occupiable
                                                                                       areas as required in Chapter 18.
L 24.3.14.6 Pathway survivability levels for wide-area mass notifi-                    24.4.2.2.3 Audibility shall be required in all areas in accord-
                                                                                       ance with Chapter 18.
   cation systems shall be determined by the risk analysis.                            24.4.3 Positive Alarm Sequence. In-building fire emergency
                                                                                       voice/alarm communications systems shall be permitted to use
A 24.3.14.7 Two-way in-building wired emergency communica-                             positive alarm sequence complying with 23.8.1.2.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tions systems that are installed where the building has less than  24.4.4 Tones. The tone preceding any message shall comply
                                                                                       with 24.4.4.1 through 24.4.4.4.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 2-hour fire-rated construction shall have a pathway survivability24.4.4.1 The tone preceding any message shall be permitted
                                                                                       to be a part of the voice message or to be transmitted automati-
ID of Level 1, 2, or Level 3.                                                          cally from a separate tone generator.

N· 24.3.14.8 Two-way in-building wired emergency communica-

IV tion systems that are installed where the building has 2-hour

   fire-rated construction or greater shall have a pathway surviva-
   bility of Level 2 or 3.

D 24.3.14.9* Area of refuge (area of rescue assistance) emer-
IN gency communications systems shall comply with 24.3.14.9.1

   and 24.3.14.9.3.
 24.3.14.9.1 Area of refuge wired emergency communications

R systems that are installed where the building has less than 2-

   hour fire-rated construction shall have a pathway survivability

O of Level 1, 2, or 3.
FN 24.3.14.9.2 Area of refuge wired emergency communication

   systems that are installed where the building has 2-hour fire-
   rated construction or greater shall have a pathway survivability
   of Level 2 or 3.
                                                                                       24.4.4.2* Except as specified in 24.4.4.3, in occupancies where
24.3.14.9.3 Circuits intended to transmit off-premises shall                           sleeping accommodations are provided and the voice message
have a pathway survivability of Level 0, Level 1, Level 2, or                          is intended to communicate information to those who could be
Level 3.                                                                               asleep, a low frequency tone that complies with 18.4.6 shall be

24.3.14.10 Elevator emergency communications systems shall                             used.

have a pathway survivability of Level 0, Level 1, Level 2, or                          24.4.4.3* In areas where sleeping accommodation are provi-
Level 3.                                                                               ded, but the voice communication system is used to communi-

24.3.14.11 Central command station emergency communica-                                cate to occupants who are awake, the low frequency tone shall
tions systems shall have pathway survivability as determined by                        not be required.

the risk analysis.

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                       EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (ECS)                                             72-141

24.4.4.4 Audible signal tones for alert or evacuation shall meet                 24.4.7.5 The fire alarm system shall not automatically override
the audibility requirements of either 18.4.4 (public mode audi-                  emergency mass notification messages.
ble requirements), 18.4.5 (private mode audible require-                         24.4.8* Relocation and Partial Evacuation. The requirements
ments), 18.4.6.1 and 18.4.6.2 (sleeping area requirements), or                   of 24.4.8 shall apply only to systems used for relocation or
18.4.7 (narrow band tone signaling for exceeding masked                          partial evacuation during a fire condition.
thresholds), as applicable.

24.4.5 Operating Controls.                                                       24.4.8.1 New systems employing relocation or partial evacua-
                                                                                 tion shall require documentation in accordance with Sections
24.4.5.1* Controls for the in-building fire emergency voice/                     7.3, 7.4, and 7.5 in addition to the minimum documentation
alarm communications system shall be at a location approved                      requirements of Sections 7.2 and 24.13.
by the authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                                 24.4.8.2 Systems shall be provided with manual voice transmis-
   24.4.5.2 Controls shall be located or secured to allow access                    sion capabilities selectively to one or more notification zones or
   only by trained and authorized personnel.                                        on an all-call basis.
   24.4.5.3 Operating controls shall be clearly identified.                         24.4.8.3 Where the system is used to transmit relocation
                                                                                    instructions or other fire emergency non-evacuation messages,
Y 24.4.5.4 If there are multiple in-building fire emergency                         a 1-second to 3-second alert tone followed by a message (or
L voice/alarm communications control locations, only one shall                      messages where multi-channel capability is used) shall be provi-
                                                                                    ded.
   be in control at any given time.                                                 24.4.8.3.1 The sequence [the alert tone followed by the
                                                                                    message(s)] shall be repeated at least three times to inform
N 24.4.5.5 The location having control of the system shall be                       and direct occupants in the signaling zone where the alarm
O identified by a visual indication at that location.                               initiation originated, as well as other signaling zones in accord-
                                                                                    ance with the building fire safety plan.
   24.4.5.6 Manual controls shall be arranged to provide visual                     24.4.8.3.2 Approved alternative fire alarm notification
                                                                                    schemes shall be permitted as long as the occupants are effec-
E indication of the on/off status for their associated signaling                    tively notified and are provided instructions in a timely and safe
                                                                                    manner in accordance with the emergency response plan.
   zone.                                                                         N 24.4.8.4 Where the system is used to transmit partial evacua-
                                                                                    tion instructions, the alert tone specified in 24.4.2.1 followed
S 24.4.5.7 If live voice instructions are provided, they shall                      by a message (or messages where multi-channel capability is
                                                                                    used) shall be provided.
   perform as follows:                                                              24.4.8.5 Where provided, loudspeakers in each enclosed stair-
                                                                                    way, each exit passageway, each occupant evacuation elevator
U (1) They shall override previously initiated signals to the                       lobby, and each group of elevator cars within a common hoist-
  L selected notification zone.                                                     way or bank shall be connected to separate notification zones
                                                                                    for manual paging only.
   (2) They shall have priority over any subsequent automati-                       24.4.8.5.1 The evacuation signal specified in 18.4.2 shall not
                                                                                    operate in elevator cars, exit stair enclosures, and exit passage-
  A cally initiated signals to the selected notification zone.                      ways.
                                                                                    24.4.8.5.2 Manually activated loudspeakers shall be permitted
   (3) If a previously initiated recorded message is interrupted                    in exit stair enclosures, exit passageways, and elevators in build-
                                                                                    ings that have emergency voice/alarm communications systems
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U by live voice instructions, upon release of the micro-          in accordance with Section 24.4.
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} phone, the previously initiated recorded messages to the   24.4.8.6 The requirements of 24.4.8.6 shall apply to both audi-
  ID selected notification zones shall not resume playing auto-                     ble (tone and voice) and visual notification appliance circuits.
          matically unless required by the emergency response
          plan.

IV 24.4.6 Loudspeakers.
D 24.4.6.1* Loudspeakers and their enclosures shall be installed

   in accordance with Chapter 18.

IN 24.4.6.2 Loudspeakers used as alarm notification appliances

   on fire alarm systems shall also be permitted to be used for
   mass notification.

R 24.4.7 Priority.
O24.4.7.1* Notification appliances required to provide special

   suppression predischarge notification shall not be overridden

Fby other systems.
24.4.7.2 Priority of mass notification messages over fire alarm                  24.4.8.6.1* Fire alarm systems used for partial evacuation and
evacuation shall be permitted when evaluated by the stakehold-                   relocation shall be designed and installed such that attack by
ers through a risk analysis in accordance with 24.3.12.                          fire within a signaling zone does not impair control and opera-
                                                                                 tion of the notification appliances outside the signaling zone.

24.4.7.3 When the fire alarm system has been activated, and                      24.4.8.6.2 Performance features provided to ensure opera-
mass notification has been given priority over the fire alarm                    tional reliability under adverse conditions shall be described
system, a distinctive audible and visual indication shall be provi-              and technical justification provided in the documentation
ded at the building fire alarm control unit to indicate MNS is                   submitted to the authority having jurisdiction with the analysis
active.                                                                          required in 23.4.3.1.

24.4.7.4 It shall not be required to transmit this condition to a
supervising station.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-142        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

24.4.8.6.3* All circuits necessary for the operation of the noti-              24.5.1.2 An in-building mass notification system shall include
fication appliances shall be protected until they enter the noti-              one or more of the following components:
fication zone that they serve by the protection provided by the
pathway survivability level required in 24.3.14.4.1 or by                      (1) Autonomous control unit (ACU)
performance alternatives approved by the authority having                      (2) Local operating console (LOC)
jurisdiction.                                                                  (3) Fire alarm control interface
                                                                               (4) Notification appliance network
                                                                               (5) Initiating devices
24.4.8.6.4 Where the separation of in-building fire emergency                  (6)* Interface to other systems and alerting sources
voice/alarm control equipment locations results in the
portions of the system controlled by one location being
dependent upon the control equipment in other locations, the                   24.5.1.3 All mass notification system notification appliances
circuits between the dependent controls shall be protected                     that receive their power from a signaling line circuit of a mass
against attack by fire by the protection provided by the pathway               notification system control unit shall be listed for use with the
survivability level required in 24.3.14.4.1 or by performance                  control unit.
alternatives approved by the authority having jurisdiction.                    24.5.1.4 Mass notification system components shall be instal-
                                                                               led, tested, and maintained in accordance with the manufactur-
Y 24.4.8.6.5 Protection of circuits between redundant control                  er's published instructions and this Code.
                                                                               24.5.1.5 In-building emergency mass notification operation
equipment locations that are not mutually dependent shall not                  shall be permitted to be initiated by manual or automatic
                                                                               means.
L be required.                                                                 24.5.1.6 Mass notification system activation shall initiate recor-
N 24.4.8.6.6 Where the separation of the in-building fire emer-                ded messages or live voice and visual notification.
                                                                               24.5.1.7 The priority level of recorded messages shall be deter-
gency voice/alarm control equipment occurs as in 24.4.8.6.4,                   mined by the emergency response plan.
                                                                               24.5.1.8 Only recorded messages determined by the emer-
O and where the circuits are run through junction boxes, termi-                gency response plan to be of higher priority than fire alarm
                                                                               activation shall be permitted to override the fire alarm notifica-
nal cabinets or control equipment, such as system control                      tion and initiate the mass notification priority indicator.
units, power supplies and amplifiers, and where cable integrity                24.5.1.9 Activation of any other recorded message shall not
                                                                               interfere with the operation of fire alarm notification.
E is not maintained, these components shall, in addition to the                24.5.1.10 Initiation of live voice announcements from micro-
                                                                               phones on the fire alarm system at an ACU, and at an LOC,
pathway survivability required by 24.3.14.4.1, be protected by                 shall not automatically place the fire alarm system in a mass
                                                                               notification priority mode.
S using one of the following methods:                                          24.5.1.11 Combination of mass notification with fire alarm
U (1) A 2-hour fire­rated enclosure                                            systems shall be permitted and shall meet the requirements of
                                                                               23.8.4.
(2) A 2-hour fire­rated room                                                   24.5.2 System Operation.
                                                                               24.5.2.1* Authorized personnel shall be permitted to control
L (3) Other equivalent means to provide a 2-hour fire resist-                  message initiation over the mass notification system.
       ance­rating approved by the authority having jurisdiction               24.5.2.2* Where required by the emergency response plan,
                                                                               the mass notification system shall provide the capability for
A 24.4.8.6.7 Paragraphs 24.4.8 through 24.4.8.6.6 shall not auto-              authorized personnel to remotely activate live and prerecorded
                                                                               emergency messages.
matically apply when relocation or partial evacuation is of a                  24.5.2.3* Operating controls shall be clearly identified.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U non-fire emergency unless identified and required by a risk

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} analysis.

ID 24.4.9 Signal Zoning.
IV 24.4.9.1* Undivided fire or smoke areas shall not be divided

into multiple notification zones.

D 24.4.9.2 If multiple notification appliance circuits are provi-

ded within a single zone, all of the notification appliances

IN within the zone shall be arranged to activate or deactivate

simultaneously, either automatically or by actuation of a
common manual control.

R 24.4.9.3 Where there are different notification appliance

circuits within a signaling zone that perform separate func-

O tions, such as presignal and general alarm signals and predis-

charge and discharge signals, they shall not be required to

Factivate or deactivate simultaneously.
24.5* In-Building Mass Notification Systems. The require-          24.5.2.4 If there are multiple control locations, only one shall
ments of Section 24.5 shall apply to mass notification systems     be in control at any given time.
installed in buildings or structures for the purpose of notifying  24.5.2.5* Any ACU shall provide a control status of all inter-
and instructing occupants in an emergency.                         connected LOCs.
24.5.1* General Performance. The performance, selection,           24.5.2.6 If there are multiple control locations, a visual indica-
installation, operation, and use of a mass notification system     tion shall be provided at all other control locations indicating
shall comply with the requirements of Section 24.5.                that another control location is in use.
24.5.1.1 Interconnection of protected premises emergency           24.5.2.7 Manual controls shall be arranged to provide visual
control functions with the mass notification systems shall         indication of the on/off status for their associated notification
comply with Chapter 21.                                            zone.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                  EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (ECS)                                         72-143

24.5.2.8 If live voice instructions are provided, they shall       gency shall be evaluated based on the emergency response
perform as follows:                                                plan.

(1) Override previously initiated signals to the selected notifi-   24.5.9.2* All mass notification initiating devices shall be listed
cation zone(s).
(2) Have priority over any subsequent automatically initiated       for their intended purpose.

signals to the selected zone(s).                                    24.5.9.3 Where no listed device exists for the detection
                                                                    required by the emergency response plan, nonlisted devices
24.5.2.9 A manual means shall be provided at each mass noti-        shall be permitted to be used if their failure will not impair the
fication system control location to permit the mass notification
system to relinquish control of the fire alarm system.             operation of the mass notification system.

24.5.2.10* During the period after the mass notification           24.5.9.4 Non-fire emergency manual actuating stations
                                                                   (boxes) shall be listed to ANSI/UL 2017, Standard for General-
   system has seized control of the audible and visual notification Purpose Signaling Devices and Systems.
   appliances, but before the mass notification system relinquishes 24.5.9.5 Non-fire emergency manual actuating boxes shall
   control, the mass notification system shall activate the audible have tactile markings, be of a contrasting color to manual fire
   and visual notification appliances at least once every           alarm boxes on the protected premises, and not be red.
                                                                    24.5.9.6 Non-fire emergency manual actuating boxes shall be
Y 30 seconds.                                                       installed similarly to manual fire alarm boxes in accordance
L 24.5.3 Notification Coverage.                                     with the requirements of 17.15.4, 17.15.6, and 17.15.9.2.
N 24.5.3.1* The mass notification system shall provide for live     24.5.10* Secure Access of Fire Alarm/Mass Notification
                                                                    System Interface. Access to, and physical protection of, the
   voice and prerecorded localized messaging within a protected     fire alarm/mass notification system interface shall be deter-
                                                                    mined by the risk analysis and as defined in the emergency
O individual building, areas surrounding the building, and other    response plan.
                                                                    24.5.11 Autonomous Control Unit (ACU).
   outdoor designated areas.                                        24.5.11.1 Where provided, the building ACU shall monitor
                                                                    and control the notification appliance network.
E 24.5.3.2 System design shall incorporate designation of acous-    24.5.11.2 Building occupants meeting the requirements of
                                                                    24.5.2.1 shall be permitted to initiate communications from the
   tically distinguishable spaces (ADS) within any occupiable areas ACU.
                                                                    24.5.11.3 Unless otherwise identified in the emergency
S as required in Chapter 18.                                        response plan, actions taken at the building ACU shall take
U 24.5.3.3 Notification zones shall be established on the basis of  precedence over actions taken at any remote location, includ-
                                                                    ing the LOC, or inputs from a wide-area mass notification
   a risk analysis.                                                 system.
                                                                    24.5.11.4 When there are multiple ACUs controlling the same
L 24.5.3.4* If the mass notification system serves more than one    notification appliance network, only one shall be in control at
                                                                    any given time.
   building, it shall be capable of providing separate messages to  24.5.11.5 When the ACU is integrated with the building fire
                                                                    alarm control unit to form one combined system that performs
A one individual building or to multiple buildings at any given     both functions, the system shall meet the standby power
                                                                    requirements of this chapter.
   time.                                                            24.5.11.6 When a combined system is installed with an ACU
                                                                    and fire alarm control unit and placed in separate equipment
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 24.5.4 Loudspeaker Circuits.enclosures, the ACU and fire alarm control unit shall be inter-
ID 24.5.4.1* Loudspeaker circuits used for mass notification that

   are not fire alarm circuits shall be exempt from the monitoring

IV requirements of this Code, provided that alternate methods of

   achieving comparable reliability are accepted by the authority
   having jurisdiction.

D 24.5.4.2 Survivability for loudspeaker circuits used for mass
IN notification shall be determined by the risk analysis for the

   building.
   24.5.5 Impairments. The requirements of Section 10.21 shall

R be applicable when a mass notification system is impaired.

   24.5.6 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Requirements.

OMass notification systems shall be inspected, tested, and main-
Ftained in accordance with the manufacturer's published
instructions and the inspection, testing, and maintenance           faced as required by this chapter.
requirements of Chapter 14.
                                                                    24.5.11.7 When the ACU is part of a stand-alone mass notifica-
24.5.7* System Response Priorities. Priority levels shall be        tion system and no fire alarm system exists, the ACU shall meet
established on the basis of the risk analysis.
                                                                    the requirements of this chapter.

24.5.8 Initiation Indication. The source of system activation       24.5.12 Local Operating Console (LOC).
shall be visibly and audibly indicated at the emergency             24.5.12.1* Building occupants meeting the authorized person-
command center and at the building control unit, unless other-      nel requirement of 24.5.2.1 shall be permitted to initiate
wise required by the emergency response plan.                       communications from the LOC.
24.5.9 Initiating Devices.                                          24.5.12.2 The use of lock wire seals or break-glass-type enclo-
24.5.9.1 Devices connected to a mass notification system for        sures to house the operating consoles for the system, or equiva-
the purpose of initiating an automatic response to an emer-         lent protection against unauthorized use, shall be permitted.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-144                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

24.5.12.3 Operating controls shall be clearly identified.                                              24.5.13.9 When the fire alarm notification is overridden as
                                                                                                       permitted in 24.5.13.8, all other features of the fire alarm
24.5.12.4 If there are multiple control locations, only one                                            system shall remain unaffected.
shall be in control at any given time.
                                                                                                       24.5.14* Mounting of LOC Controls.
24.5.12.5 The location having control of the system shall be
identified by a visual indication at that location.                                                    24.5.14.1 Controls that are intended to be accessed by author-
                                                                                                       ized users shall be mounted in accordance with 24.5.14.
24.5.12.6 If live voice instructions are provided, they shall
override previously initiated signals to the selected notification                                     24.5.14.2 LOC controls, including switches, microphone,
zone(s) and shall have priority over any subsequent automati-                                          latches, and so forth, shall be located above the finished floor a
cally initiated signals to the selected zone(s).                                                       minimum of 36 in. (910 mm) and a maximum of 48 in.
                                                                                                       (1.22 m) where the horizontal reach is less than 10 in.
24.5.12.7 Upon initiation of an emergency message, a visual                                            (254 mm).
indication shall be provided to the user that the LOC is                                               24.5.14.3 If a horizontal reach of 10 in. (254 mm) to 24 in.
connected to the audio network.                                                                        (610 mm) is required, the maximum elevation shall be limited
                                                                                                       to 42 in. (1.07 m) above the finished floor and the minimum
Y 24.5.12.8 Manual controls shall be permitted to provide visual                                       elevation shall be limited to 28 in. (711 mm).
                                                                                                       24.5.14.4 Text and visual indicators, including lamps, screens,
indication of the on/off status for their associated notification                                      displays, instructions, or labels, associated with control or oper-
                                                                                                       ation shall be visible within all points of elevation between
L zone.                                                                                                40 in. (1.02 m) and 60 in. (1.52 m) above the finished floor.
N 24.5.12.9 The emergency message shall be an all-call basis                                           24.5.14.5 Where controls and information are provided in
                                                                                                       accordance with 24.5.14.2 through 24.5.14.4, provision of addi-
unless otherwise permitted by 24.5.12.10.                                                              tional or redundant controls shall be permitted within the
                                                                                                       same vicinity at an elevation or reach other than those indica-
O 24.5.12.10 Selective notification zone paging shall be permit-                                       ted.
                                                                                                       24.5.14.6 Dimensions other than those identified in 24.5.14.2
ted only if the LOC has manual controls with visual indication                                         through 24.5.14.4 shall be permitted when documented within
                                                                                                       the emergency response plan that ADA guidelines are not
E of the on/off status for each associated notification zone.                                          applicable, or when otherwise required by the AHJ.
                                                                                                       24.5.15 Volume Control.
24.5.13 Voice Message Priority.                                                                        24.5.15.1 Local controls shall be permitted to adjust volume
                                                                                                       levels of ancillary functions.
S 24.5.13.1* The priority of mass notification messages shall be                                       24.5.15.2 Upon activation of an emergency signal, the system
U established using the emergency response plan.                                                       shall override any local volume setting to deliver at a preset
                                                                                                       volume setting that has been established through testing and
24.5.13.2 The local building mass notification system shall                                            acceptance of sound level and speech intelligibility as required
                                                                                                       by this Code.
L have the ability to override the fire alarm system with live voice                                   24.5.16 Visual Notification.
                                                                                                       24.5.16.1 Where audible notification is provided, mass notifi-
or manual activation of a higher priority message, but only                                            cation systems shall also provide visual notification information
                                                                                                       to serve the hearing impaired and for high-noise areas.
A where that message and operation are approved under the                                              24.5.16.2 The visual notification required by 24.5.16.1 shall be
                                                                                                       accomplished using visual notification appliances.
emergency response plan.                                                                               24.5.16.3 In addition to the visual notification appliances
                                                                                                       required by 24.5.16.1, textual, graphic, or video displays shall
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 24.5.13.3 All other messages shall also be prioritized by usingbe permitted.
ID the emergency response plan.

24.5.13.4 When identified by the emergency response plan,

IV messages from the mass notification system shall be permitted

to take priority over fire alarm messages and signals.

D 24.5.13.5 If the fire alarm system is in the alarm mode and a

recorded voice message is playing, or the audible signals are

IN sounding, and then the mass notification system is activated, it

shall cause deactivation of all fire alarm­initiated audible and
visual notification.

R 24.5.13.6 After the mass notification system relinquishes

control, the following shall occur:

O (1) Without an active fire alarm signal, the fire alarm system
Fshall automatically restore to normal operation.

(2)* With an active fire alarm signal, the fire alarm system
       shall operate based on the emergency response plan.

24.5.13.7 Overriding of fire alarm audible and visual notifica-                                        24.5.16.4 Transmission of visual notification and messages
tion signals shall cause an audible and distinctive visual indica-                                     shall be simultaneous to audible notification and messages.
tion at each affected fire alarm control unit to indicate the
MNS is active.
                                                                                                       24.5.17 Visual Appliances.

24.5.13.8 The fire alarm signal deactivation function shall be       24.5.17.1 Where visual notification appliances are used, they
permitted to occur only when both the fire alarm system is in          shall meet the requirements of 24.5.17.2 through 24.5.17.10.
an alarm condition and notification is being given by the mass         24.5.17.2 Visual notification appliances shall be of a sufficient
notification system.                                                   quantity and intensity and located so as to meet the intent of
                                                                       the design and be in compliance with Section 18.5.

2019 Edition    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

               EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (ECS)                                                                                                  72-145

24.5.17.3 Visual notification appliances used in combination                                          24.5.18.3 Primary and supplemental textual and graphical
systems where the same visual notification appliance is used for                                      visual appliances shall meet the requirements of Chapter 18.
both mass notification and fire notification shall comply with                                        24.5.18.4 Primary textual and graphical visual appliances
the following:                                                                                        other than a main control unit shall be permitted to not have a
(1) Be clear or nominal white, meeting the listing require-                                           dedicated primary power circuit as required by Chapter 10 but
                                                                                                      shall meet all other requirements for the monitoring of
       ments of ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for Signaling Devices for                                      primary power and all requirements for secondary power.
       the Hearing Impaired                                                                           24.5.18.5 Textual and graphical visual appliances shall be
(2) Have no marking or be marked with the word "ALERT"                                                permitted to be used for nonemergency purposes.
       stamped or imprinted on the appliance
(3) Be visible to the public

24.5.17.4 In situations where existing notification appliances                                        24.5.18.6 Emergency textual and graphical messages shall
                                                                                                      override nonemergency textual and graphical messages.
   previously used exclusively for fire alarm applications, and are                                   24.5.18.7 Supplemental textual and graphical visual applian-
   marked with the word "FIRE," and are to be used for other                                          ces that are not monitored for integrity or loss of communica-
   emergency notification purposes, field modification to the                                         tion by a control unit shall be provided with visual status
                                                                                                      indicators, including loss of communication or loss of power,
Y marking shall be permitted, provided that it is accomplished by                                     that are clearly visible on the appliance.
                                                                                                      24.5.18.8 Addressable primary textual and graphical visual
   one of the following methods:                                                                      appliances using signaling line circuits shall meet the perform-
                                                                                                      ance requirements of Section 23.6.
L (1) Replacement of the manufacturer's approved escutcheon                                           24.5.18.9 Non-addressable primary textual and graphical
  N or trim plate                                                                                     visual appliance circuits shall meet the performance require-
                                                                                                      ments of Section 23.7.
   (2) Covering of, or removal of, the word "FIRE" using a                                            24.5.19 Tactile Notification Appliances. Where tactile notifi-
           manufacturer's approved method                                                             cation appliances are provided for emergency notification, they
                                                                                                      shall meet the requirements of Section 18.10.
O (3) Installation of a permanent sign directly adjacent or                                           24.5.20* Video Alerting. Video display systems that provide
           below the notification appliance indicating that it is                                     alerts and messages to video appliances shall be permitted to
  E multipurpose and will operate for fire and other emer-                                            be used to supplement mass notification.
           gency conditions                                                                           24.5.21 Supplemental Notification. Supplemental notification
                                                                                                      shall be permitted to provide additional information or more
S 24.5.17.5 Visual notification appliances with colored lenses                                        detailed instructions than those transmitted by the primary
U shall be marked with the listed effective intensity using the lens                                  notification means.
                                                                                                      24.5.22 Interfaces. Any abnormal condition that would
   color installed.                                                                                   prevent reliable emergency operation of any interfaced system
                                                                                                      shall be annunciated both audibly and visibly as a trouble signal
L 24.5.17.6 The spacing of colored visual notification appliances                                     at the affected control location.
                                                                                                      24.5.22.1 Fire Alarm Control Interface (FACI).
   shall be in accordance with public mode spacing requirements                                       24.5.22.1.1 Where a fire alarm system is installed covering all
                                                                                                      or part of the same building or other area as the mass notifica-
A of Section 18.5 using the effective intensity as the basis for spac-                                tion system, an interface shall be provided between the systems
                                                                                                      for operational coordination purposes.
   ing.                                                                                               24.5.22.1.2 A listed barrier gateway in accordance with 10.3.1,
                                                                                                      integral with, or attached to, each control unit or group of
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 24.5.17.7 Where visual notification appliances are used solely
ID for mass notification, the word "ALERT" shall be stamped or

   imprinted on the appliance and be visible to the public.

IV  24.5.17.8 Where colored visual notification appliances are
   used solely for mass notification, they shall be listed to an appli-
   cable standard such as ANSI/UL 1638, Visible Signaling Devices
D for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Including Accessories.
IN 24.5.17.9 Visual notification appliances with nominal white
   light output that are listed to ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for
   Signaling Devices for the Hearing Impaired, and visual notification
   appliances with other than nominal white light output that are
R listed to ANSI/UL 1638, Visible Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm
   and Signaling Systems, Including Accessories, shall be considered as
Omeeting the intent of this Code.

F24.5.17.10 Visual notification appliances used for mass notifi-
cation shall meet the synchronization requirements of                                                 control units, as appropriate, shall be provided to prevent the
                                                                                                      other systems from interfering with or controlling the fire
Section 18.5.                                                                                         alarm system.

24.5.18* Textual and Graphical Visual Appliances.                                                     24.5.22.1.3* The fire alarm control interface shall coordinate
24.5.18.1 Textual and graphical visual notification appliances                                        signals to and from each system to accomplish the following:
shall be permitted to be used for primary or supplemental noti-
fication.                                                                                             (1) Indicate the failure at the system control unit that will be
                                                                                                             impaired
24.5.18.2* Textual and graphical visual notification shall be                                         (2) Provide an audible and distinctive visual indication at the
considered to be primary notification where it is the only                                            affected FACU(s) to indicate the MNS is active.
method used to convey emergency mass notification informa-                                            (3) Cause the fire alarm system to deactivate all audible and
tion to the general public or to specific individuals.                                                visual notification appliances whose operation could
                                                                                                      interfere with the intelligibility of the mass notification

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-146        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

message or that will deliver conflicting information to                           requirements of Chapter 24, shall provide equivalent system
occupants                                                                         performance requirements.
(4) Not permit the fire alarm system to turn off audible and
       visual notification appliances for special suppression pre-                24.5.25 Public Address (PA) System Interface with Facility Fire
       discharge notification required by 24.4.7.1                                Alarm System.

(5) Where required by the emergency response plan or by                           24.5.25.1 When a public address system is used to deliver mass
       other governing laws, codes, or standards, or by other                     notification messages, the public address system shall provide
parts of this Code, or by the authority having jurisdiction,
provide for a supervisory signal to a supervising station                         (either internally as a design feature or with an approved or
with a response as directed by the emergency response                             listed external controller) for a signal to control the facility's
plan that is indicative of the mass notification system over-                     fire alarm system for the purpose of deactivating the fire alarm
riding the fire alarm system notification appliances                              audible and visual notification appliances in accordance with
                                                                                  24.5.22.1.
       during simultaneous fire and mass notification events
24.5.22.1.4 If the fire alarm control interface is used to broad-                 24.5.25.2 All of the following features shall be provided in, or
cast nonemergency messages, music, or other signals over the                      added to, the public address system:
                                                                                  (1) Emergency messages must have priority over non-
Y fire alarm notification appliance circuits, the operation shall
L meet the requirements of 24.5.15 and 23.8.4.                                           emergency messages.
                                                                                  (2) All individual or zone loudspeaker volume controls must
24.5.22.2 Interfaces to Emergency Control Functions. The
                                                                                         default to the emergency sound level when used for an
N mass notification system shall be permitted to provide emer-                           emergency mass notification message.
                                                                                  (3) When monitoring of circuit integrity is provided by the
gency control functions in accordance with Chapter 21 as                                 public address system, monitoring must continue, even if
                                                                                         local loudspeaker volume controls are placed in the "off"
O required by the emergency response plan and as permitted by                            position.
                                                                                  (4) The required visual notification appliance network (i.e.,
the authority having jurisdiction.                                                       visual notification appliances and textual signs) must be
                                                                                         provided where required.
E 24.5.22.2.1 When mass notifications systems are controlling                     24.6* Wide-Area Mass Notification Systems.
                                                                                  24.6.1 Voice Messages.
building life safety systems, the mass notifications systems                      24.6.1.1 Voice messages shall comply with the requirements of
                                                                                  24.3.1.
S equipment shall be listed for ANSI/UL 864, Control Units and                    24.6.1.2 Where required by the emergency response plan,
                                                                                  multiple languages shall be permitted to be used.
Accessories for Fire Alarm Systems.                                               24.6.1.3 Where required by the emergency response plan,
                                                                                  specific warning tones shall be provided.
U 24.5.22.3 Interfaces with Wide-Area Mass Notification Systems.                  24.6.2* Password Protection. Wide-area mass notification
L 24.5.22.3.1* Individual building mass notification systems                      systems shall have multiple levels of password protection access
                                                                                  control, including levels for system administrators, system oper-
shall be permitted to interface with wide-area mass notification                  ators, maintainers, supervisors, and executives, or other means
                                                                                  to limit access to system controls shall be provided based on the
A systems.                                                                        emergency response plan.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 24.5.22.3.2 The in-building mass notification system shall not24.6.3* External Connections. Wide-area mass notification
                                                                                  systems shall be permitted to connect to regional mass notifica-
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} be activated or controlled by a wide-area mass notification  tion systems and public emergency alarm reporting systems as
                                                                                  defined in this Code, and public reporting systems as defined
ID system, unless the wide-area mass notification system also meets               in NFPA 1221.

the design and performance requirements of this chapter or

IV has been deemed to be acceptable by the risk analysis and the

authority having jurisdiction.
24.5.23 Combination Emergency Communications Systems.

D 24.5.23.1* When the mass notification system is integrated
IN with the building fire alarm control unit to form one combined

system that performs both functions, the system shall comply
with this chapter.

R 24.5.23.2 All components that affect the operation of the fire

alarm system shall be listed for fire alarm use and shall be in

O compliance with applicable standards such as ANSI/UL 864,
FStandard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm Systems.
24.5.24 Public Address (PA) Systems Used for Emergency                            24.6.4 Emergency Command Center. Refer to Section 24.11
Communications.                                                                   for requirements of an emergency command center.

24.5.24.1 The voice communications or public address system                       24.6.5* High Power Loudspeaker Array (HPLA). When
that is to be used for mass notification shall be evaluated by the                required by the risk analysis, high power loudspeaker arrays
emergency communications system designer, as defined in                           (HPLAs) shall be provided, installed, and maintained.
Chapter 10, to determine applicability and compliance.                            24.6.5.1 The HPLA shall be arranged in such a manner to
24.5.24.2* Evaluation documentation in accordance with 7.3.9                      provide intelligible voice and audible tone communications.
shall be provided by the emergency communications system                          (A) When multiple HPLAs are used, they shall be arranged in
designer attesting to the fact that the public address system has                 physical or virtual notification zones so that each notification
been evaluated and meets the needs of the emergency                               zone can be individually controlled by the emergency
response plan and, where not compliant with the prescriptive                      command center.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                      EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (ECS)                                                        72-147

(B)* HPLAs shall be designed to maintain the intelligibility of                     necessary communications protocols to provide interoperabil-
voice signals within the notification zone in accordance with                       ity and a secure communications link.
the requirements of Chapter 18.
                                                                                    24.6.11.1 The interface shall be such that the primary func-
24.6.5.2 Secondary power for HPLAs used for wide-area mass                          tion of both systems shall not be compromised.
notification systems shall have sufficient capacity to operate the
unit for a minimum of 3 days in standby, followed by                                24.6.11.2 The interface shall be monitored for integrity in
60 minutes of operation at full load.                                               accordance with 10.6.9, Section 10.19, and Section 12.6, so that
                                                                                    an abnormal condition that could prevent reliable system oper-
24.6.5.3 An HPLA shall have the capability to provide voice                         ation is audibly and visibly annunciated as a trouble signal at
communications and tones as determined by the emergency             both systems' control units.
response plan.
                                                                    24.6.12 Control Hierarchy. There shall be a predefined
   24.6.5.4* An HPLA shall operate in the environment in which                      control hierarchy between the wide-area mass notification
   it is located, considering such factors as temperature, humidity,                system, the in-building mass notification system, and the
   wind, dust, vibration, and other environmental factors.                          regional mass notification system for information flow from the
                                                                                    remote control center, as well as information from specific loca-
Y 24.6.6 High Power Loudspeaker Array Enclosures.                                   tions.
L 24.6.6.1 Enclosures for HPLAs shall be of the NEMA 4 or 4X                        24.6.13 Communications Links.
                                                                                    24.6.13.1 The wide-area mass notification system, including
   type.                                                                            communications links, shall minimize the potential for inter-
                                                                                    ference from jamming, spoofing, hacking, eavesdropping, or
N 24.6.6.2 HPLA enclosures shall have intrusion detection that                      other malicious acts.
O signals the emergency command center.                                             24.6.13.2 The wide-area mass notification system shall have a
                                                                                    primary and redundant communications link with minimal
   (A) The signal shall be initiated whenever the door of the                       functional and spatial interconnection with each other.
                                                                                    24.6.13.3 Wide-area and in-building mass notification systems
E enclosure is in the open position.                                                equipment and interface methods connecting to or utilizing
                                                                                    public emergency alarm reporting systems and associated
   (B) The transmitted signal shall be a latching supervisory                       communications infrastructure shall be electrically and opera-
                                                                                    tionally compatible so as not to interfere with the public emer-
S signal.                                                                           gency alarm reporting systems.
U 24.6.7 High Power Loudspeaker Array Mounting.                                     24.7* Distributed Recipient Mass Notification Systems
                                                                                    (DRMNS).
   24.6.7.1 HPLAs shall be mounted at a minimum mounting                            24.7.1* Overview. Distributed recipient mass notification
                                                                                    system (DRMNS) alerting shall not be used in lieu of required
L height that is based on the rated output of the array.                            audible and visual alerting mass notification systems but shall
A 24.6.7.2* HPLAs shall be installed at a height and orientation                    be integrated with mass notification systems whenever possible.
                                                                                    24.7.2* Targeted Recipients. The DRMNS shall be capable of
   to prevent hearing damage to anyone in the immediate vicinity                    sending alert messages to target recipients.
                                                                                    24.7.3 Network Security Compliance. DRMNSs shall be instal-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U of the appliances.                                              led behind the appropriate Internet system firewalls to protect
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 24.6.7.3 All external conductors (conductors passing outsidethe integrity of the network.
                                                                                    24.7.4 Network Architecture. The network shall be provided
   of the HPLA equipment cabinet) shall be provided with surge                      with net-centric architecture that fully supports local designa-
   suppression to minimize potential equipment damage from                          ted standards and security requirements.

IV lightning strikes.

   24.6.8 High Power Loudspeaker Array Noise Consideration.

D HPLA notification zones shall not be used to provide mass noti-

   fication inside any structures.

IN 24.6.9* High Power Loudspeaker Array Structural Loads,

   Wind, and Seismic Design. HPLAs and their supporting struc-
   tures shall meet the structural, wind, and seismic loads as iden-

R tified in the risk analysis.
O24.6.10 Textual Visual Appliances. Textual visual appliances
Fshall meet the requirements of Section 18.9 and 24.5.18.
24.6.10.1 After loss of primary power, primary textual visual                       24.7.5* Delivery Methods. The DRMNS shall be capable of
notification appliances shall have sufficient secondary power to                    sending alert messages to end users (recipients) via multiple
operate for a minimum of 2 hours of continuous display time
during an emergency event.                                                          delivery methods.
24.6.10.2 Scrolling message boards shall be provided with
means to control the scrolling rate.                                                24.7.6* Backup Distributed Recipient Mass Notification
                                                                                    Systems. A DRMNS used to send emergency messages shall be
                                                                                    provided with a backup configuration to facilitate distribution
                                                                                    of messages.
24.6.11 Interfaces with Wide-Area Mass Notification Systems.
Interfaces between wide-area mass notification systems and in-
building mass notification systems, other alert and notification                    24.8* Two-Way, In-Building Wired Emergency Services
                                                                                    Communications Systems.
systems, regional mass notification systems, and off-site interfa-
ces shall have a standard interface method (such as an audio                        24.8.1 Two-way telephone communications equipment shall
                                                                                    be listed for two-way telephone communications service and
line­level output and multiple relay contacts) or supply the                        installed in accordance with Section 24.8.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-148                                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

24.8.2 Two-way telephone communications service, if provi-                  24.8.14 Telephone circuits shall be selectable from the control
ded, shall be for use by the fire service and collocated with the           location either individually or, if approved by the authority
in-building fire emergency voice/alarm communications equip-                having jurisdiction, by floor or stairwell.
ment.
                                                                            24.8.15 If the control equipment provided does not indicate
24.8.3 Monitoring of the integrity of two-way telephone                     the location of the caller (common talk systems), each tele-
communications circuits shall be in accordance with 10.19.2.                phone station or telephone jack shall be clearly and perma-
                                                                            nently labeled to allow the caller to identify his or her location
24.8.4 Additional uses shall be permitted to include signaling              to the control center by voice.
and communications for a building fire warden organization
and signaling and communications for reporting a fire and                   24.8.16 If telephone jacks are provided, two or more portable
other emergencies (e.g., voice call box service, signaling, and             handsets, as determined by the authority having jurisdiction,
communications for guard's tour service).                                   shall be stored at each control center for use by emergency
                                                                               responders.
   24.8.5 Variation of equipment and system operation provided              · 24.8.17 Wall-mounted telephone appliances or related jacks
   to facilitate additional use of the two-way telephone communi-
   cations service shall not adversely affect performance when                 shall be not less than 36 in. (910 mm) and not more than 66 in.
                                                                               (1.68 m) above floor level with clear access to the appliance
Y used by the fire service.                                                    that is at least 30 in. (760 mm) wide.
L 24.8.6* Two-way telephone communications service shall be                    24.8.18 If accessible to the general public, one telephone
N capable of permitting the simultaneous operation of any five                 appliance per location shall be not more than 48 in. (1.22 m)
                                                                               above floor level.
   telephone stations in a common talk mode.                                   24.8.19* All circuits necessary for the operation of two-way
                                                                               telephone communications systems shall be installed in accord-
O  24.8.7 A notification signal at the control equipment, distinc-             ance with the pathway survivability requirements in 24.3.14.7.
   tive from any other alarm, supervisory, or trouble signal, shall            24.9 Two-Way Radio Communications Enhancement Systems.
   indicate the off-hook condition of a calling telephone circuit.             24.9.1 Non-interference.
                                                                             24.9.1.1 No amplification system capable of operating on
E N 24.8.8 Where a selective talk telephone communications serv-               frequencies or causing interference on frequencies assigned to
S ice is supplied, a distinctive visual indicator shall be furnished           the jurisdiction by the FCC shall be installed without prior
                                                                               coordination and approval of the authority having jurisdiction.
   for each selectable circuit, so that all circuits with telephones        ·
                                                                            N 24.9.1.2 The building manager/owner shall suspend and
U off-hook are continuously and visibly indicated.                             correct other equipment installations that degrade the
L 24.8.9 A means for silencing the audible call-in signal sound-               performance of the public safety radio system or public safety
                                                                               radio enhancement system.
   ing appliance shall be permitted, whereboth of the following                24.9.2 Installation and Design. All in-building two-way radio
                                                                               communications enhancement systems shall be designed,
A conditions are met:                                                          installed, and maintained in accordance with NFPA 1221.
                                                                               24.10* Area of Refuge (Area of Rescue Assistance) Emergency
   (1) The means is key-operated or located in a locked cabinet                Communications Systems, Stairway Communications Systems,
                                                                               Elevator Landing Communications Systems, and Occupant
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U or provided with protection to prevent use by unauthor-   Evacuation Elevator Lobby Communications Systems.
                                                                               24.10.1 Where required by the enforcing authority, governing
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ized persons.                                         laws, codes, or standards, any communications system specified
                                                                               in this section shall be installed in accordance with 24.10.2
ID (2) The means operates a visual indicator and sounds a trou-                through 24.10.11.
           ble signal whenever the means is in the silence position
  IV and no telephone circuits are in an off-hook condition.
   24.8.10 If a selective talk system is used, means as specified in
   24.8.9 shall be permitted, provided that subsequent telephone

D circuits going off-hook operate the distinctive off-hook signal.
IN 24.8.11 Two-way telephone systems with common talk mode

   (i.e., a conference or party line circuit) shall be permitted.
   24.8.12 In buildings provided with a two-way telephone

R communications system, at least one telephone station or jack

   shall be provided at the following locations:

 O (1) Each floor level
 F(2) Each notification zone
(3) Each elevator cab                                               24.10.2* The communications system shall comprise remotely
(4) Elevator lobbies                                                        located communications stations, a master control unit, and a
(5) Elevator machine room(s)                                                primary and secondary power supply as required by
(6) Emergency and standby power room(s)                                     Section 10.6.
 (7) Fire pump room(s)
 (8) Area(s) of refuge                                                      N 24.10.2.1 When a remote communications station(s) is activa-
 (9) Each floor level inside an enclosed exit stair(s)                         ted by a building occupant(s), a two-way live voice communica-
(10) Other room(s) or area(s) as required by the authority                     tion shall be required to operate between the remote
                                                                               communications station(s) and a constantly attended location.
        having jurisdiction

24.8.13 If the two-way telephone system is intended to be used              N 24.10.2.2* The master control unit shall be installed in a
by fire wardens in addition to the fire service, the minimum                   central control point within the building.
requirement shall be a selective talk system, where phones are
selected from the control location.

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (ECS)                                                                               72-149

N 24.10.2.3* The constantly attended location shall be located                    (a) Fire alarm system controls
either within the building or at an off-site monitoring location                  (b) Fire alarm system annunciator
and shall be approved by the authority having jurisdiction.                       (c) In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communi-
                                                                                                cations system controls
24.10.3 The remote communications stations and the master                         (2) Area of refuge (area of rescue assistance) emergency
control unit shall communicate with each other via pathways
based on their performance capabilities under abnormal                                   communications systems equipment
(fault) conditions in accordance with the requirements for                        (3) Elevator emergency communications systems equipment
Class A, Class B, Class N, or Class X pathways specified in Chap-                 (4) Distributed recipient MNS control stations where provi-
ter 12.
                                                                                         ded
                                                                                  (5) Tables and chairs to accommodate emergency manage-
                                                                                         ment staff
24.10.4 All pathways between the remote communications                            (6) Other equipment/information deemed necessary by the
stations and the master control unit shall be monitored for                              facility emergency response plan such as:
   integrity.                                                                              (a) Displays indicating the location of the elevators
   24.10.5* If the central control point is not constantly atten-                                 and whether they are operational
   ded, the master control unit shall have a timed automatic                               (b) Status indicators and controls for air-handling
                                                                                                  systems
Y communications capability to connect with an off-site                                    (c) Fire fighter's control panel for smoke control
L constantly attended monitoring location approved by the                                         systems
                                                                                           (d) Fire department communications unit
   authority having jurisdiction, where trained personnel can                              (e) Controls for unlocking stairway doors simultane-
                                                                                                  ously
N initiate the appropriate response.                                                       (f) Security systems
                                                                                           (g) Emergency and standby power status indicators
N 24.10.6* In the event of an off-site connection, a signal shall                         (h) Telephone for emergency use with controlled
                                                                                                  access to the public telephone system
O be transmitted to the off-site monitoring location, identifying                          (i) Schematic building plans indicating the typical
                                                                                                  floor plan and detailing the building core, means
   the specific building prior to initiating the live voice two-way                               of egress, fire protection systems, security systems,
                                                                                                  fire-fighting equipment, and fire department
E communication.                                                                                  access
S 24.10.7* The physical locations of the remote communica-                                  (j) Generator supervision devices, manual start, and
                                                                                                  transfer features
   tions stations and the master control unit shall be as designated                       (k) Other monitoring, control, information display,
                                                                                                  and management systems associated with opera-
U by the building code in force and the system designer and                                       tion of the ECC

   approved by the authority having jurisdiction.                                 24.11.1.3 The level of security at the emergency command
                                                                                  center shall be defined in the emergency response plan.
L 24.10.8 The specific location of each remote communications                     24.11.1.4* Emergency command center personnel require-
                                                                                  ments shall be defined in the documentation in the emergency
   station shall be identified on the master control unit display on              response plan.
                                                                                  24.11.1.5* Individuals expected to operate an emergency
A a floor and area basis.                                                         communications system shall be properly trained in the
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U N 24.10.9 The remote communications stations shall provide forpurpose, functions, procedures, and anticipated actions of such
                                                                                  systems.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} hands-free, two-way communication, provide an audible and   24.11.1.6 The emergency command center shall be capable of
                                                                                  receiving voice messages by telephone or radio and transmit-
ID visual signal to indicate communication has occurred, and indi-                ting via equipment at the emergency command center.

   cate to the receiver the location sending the signal.

IV 24.10.10 Instructions for the use of the two-way communica-

   tions system, instructions for summoning assistance via the two-
   way communications system, and written identification,

D including in braille, of the location shall be posted adjacent to

   each remote communications station.

IN N· 24.10.11* The communications systems specified in this
   section shall be permitted to be integrated with each other or
   other two-way emergency communications system(s) provided
R they are installed in accordance with Section 24.10.
O24.11* Information, Command, and Control. The require-
   ments of Section 24.11 shall apply to the communications

Fmethods and equipment used to receive and transmit informa-
tion between premises sources or premises systems and the                         24.11.1.7 The emergency command center operator shall
emergency command center(s).                                                      have the ability to monitor inputs/sensors and control output

24.11.1* Emergency Command Center for Emergency                                   devices automatically, manually, or automatically with operator
Communications Systems.                                                           override.

24.11.1.1* The location and accessibility of the emergency                        24.11.2 Emergency Communications Control Unit (ECCU).
command center shall be determined by the risk analysis and                       24.11.2.1 An emergency communications control unit
approved by the emergency management coordinator.                                 (ECCU), where identified by the risk analysis, and defined in
24.11.1.2 The emergency command center shall contain the                          the emergency response plan, shall be provided at each emer-
following:                                                                        gency command center.

(1) The in-building fire emergency voice/alarm communica-
       tions system equipment including:

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-150                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

24.11.2.2 The system operator shall be able to broadcast live                        (3) The design and performance criteria are specific to the
voice signals or activated prerecorded voice messages, tones,                        nature and anticipated risks of each location.
and other signals.                                                                   (4) Message initiation can be effected by all responding enti-
                                                                                     ties responsible for the safety and security of those affec-
24.11.2.3 The signals shall be selectable to individual build-                       ted by the events of concern.
ings; zones of buildings; individual outdoor loudspeaker arrays;
zones of outdoor loudspeaker arrays; or a building, multiple                         24.12.2* Qualifications. The performance-based design and
buildings, outside areas, or a combination of these, in accord-                      risk analysis shall be prepared by a design professional certified
ance with the emergency response plan established for the                            or approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
premises.
                                                                                     24.12.3 Independent Review. The authority having jurisdic-
24.11.2.4 The central control emergency communications                               tion shall be permitted to require an approved, independent
control unit shall automatically or manually assign priorities to                    third party to review the proposed design brief and provide an
all transmitted signals.                                                             evaluation of the design to the authority having jurisdiction.
24.11.2.5 In wide-area mass notification systems, the emer-                          24.12.4 Final Determination. The authority having jurisdic-
gency command center shall have a primary emergency                                  tion shall make the final determination as to whether the
                                                                                     performance objectives have been met.
Y communications control unit.                                                       24.12.5 Maintenance of Design Features. The design features
L 24.11.2.6 Multiple emergency communications control units                          required for the system to continue to meet the performance
N shall be permitted.                                                                goals and objectives of this Code shall be maintained for the
                                                                                     life of the building.
24.11.3* Signals. Where identified by the risk analysis and                          24.12.6 Performance Criteria.
                                                                                     24.12.6.1 General. All designs shall meet the goals and objec-
O defined in the emergency response plan, the emergency                              tives specified in 24.12.1 and shall be considered equivalent,
                                                                                     provided that the performance criterion in 24.12.6.2 is met, the
communications control unit shall be permitted to automati-                          design team concurs with the design, and the risk analysis
cally or manually send different messages or signals to different                    considers the following factors:
                                                                                     (1) Number of persons to be notified
E locations.                                                                         (2) Occupancy characteristics
S 24.11.4 Power Supplies.                                                            (3) Anticipated threat
U 24.11.4.1 All control units shall meet the power supply                            (4) Staff capabilities
                                                                                     (5) Coordination with the emergency response plan
requirements of Section 10.6 and 24.11.4.2.                                          24.12.6.2 Performance Criterion. The performance criterion
                                                                                     shall include timely and accurate notification of all persons
L 24.11.4.2 The power supply for the emergency command                               within the boundaries of the mass notification system in a
                                                                                     medium to which they can respond when given directions by
center for emergency communications systems shall include an                         responding entities.
                                                                                     24.12.6.3* Design Team. The design team shall be comprised
A uninterrupted power source with capacity sufficient to support                     of the design professional, the owner or owner's representative,
                                                                                     representatives of the authority having jurisdiction, and repre-
the emergency response plan established for the specific prem-                       sentatives of the responding entities.
                                                                                     24.12.6.4 Risk Analysis. The design of the mass notification
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ises.                                                            system shall be based upon a risk analysis prepared in accord-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 24.11.5 Transmission. Signals shall be capable of being auto-ance with 24.3.12 specific to the nature and anticipated risks of
                                                                                     each facility for which it is designed.
matically or manually transmitted to a regional or national                          24.12.6.5 Operational Status and System Effectiveness. The
emergency response center or to other nearby facilities that

IV have a need to be alerted of the emergency.

24.11.6* Other Systems. The emergency command center

D shall be capable of interfacing with and controlling other noti-

fication systems, such as telephone dialers, tone alert systems,

IN computer network alerting systems, pagers, facsimile machines,

textual devices, and other visual control signs, as determined by
the emergency response plan.

R 24.11.7 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance. Inspection,

testing, and maintenance shall be performed on a periodic

O basis, as described in Chapter 14, to verify and ensure proper
Fsystem operation and readiness.
24.12* Performance-Based Design of Mass Notification                                 performance of the system shall reflect the documented
                                                                   performance and reliability of the components of those systems
Systems. The requirements of Section 24.12 shall apply to                            or features, unless design specifications are incorporated to
mass notification systems designed using performance-based
practices.                                                                           modify the expected performance.

24.12.1 Goals and Objectives. The performance-based design                           24.12.6.5.1 The inclusion of trained employees as part of the
                                                                                     mass notification system shall be identified and documented.
shall meet the following goals and objectives:
(1) The design criteria, design brief, system performance,         24.12.6.5.2 Emergency Response Personnel. The design shall
                                                                   consider the characteristics or other conditions related to the
       and testing criteria are developed in accordance with this  availability, speed of response, effectiveness, roles, and other
       section.                                                    characteristics of emergency response personnel.
(2) The system disseminates information to the target audi-
ence in an accurate and timely manner.                                               24.12.6.6* Design Brief. The design of the mass notification
                                                                                     system shall include the preparation of a design brief that is

2019 Edition        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                               SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                                                    72-151

prepared utilizing recognized performance-based design prac-                    reporting them to the communications center only where all
tices.                                                                          the following conditions exist:

24.12.6.6.1 Design specifications and briefs used in the                        (1)* Alarm signal verification is required by the responsible
                                                                                fire department for a specific protected premises.
performance-based design shall be clearly stated and shown to                   (2) Documentation of the requirement for alarm signal verifi-
be realistic and sustainable.                                                          cation is provided by the responsible fire department to

24.12.6.6.2 Specific testing requirements that are necessary to                        the supervising station and the protected premises.
maintain reliable performance shall be stated in the design                     (3) If the requirement for verification changes, the responsi-
brief.
                                                                                       ble fire department notifies the supervising station and
                                                                                       the protected premises.
24.13 Documentation for Emergency Communications                                (4)* The verification process does not take longer than
Systems.
                                                                                       90 seconds from the time the alarm signal is received at
   24.13.1 New Systems. Documentation requirements for new                                the supervising station until the time that retransmission
   emergency communications systems shall comply with Sections                            of the verified alarm signal is initiated.
   7.3 through 7.8 in addition to the minimum requirements of                      (5) Verification of a true fire is received from anyone on
                                                                                          premises or verification of an unwanted alarm signal is
Y Section 7.2.                                                                            received only from a pre-assigned list of authorized
     L Chapter 25 Reserved                                                                personnel within the protected premises.
                                                                                   (6)* Verified alarm signals are immediately retransmitted to
  ON Chapter 26 Supervising Station Alarm Systems                                         the communications center and include information that
                                                                                          the signal was verified at the protected premises to be an
   26.1* Application. The performance, installation, and opera-                           emergency.
                                                                                   (7)* Alarm signals where verification is not conclusive are
E tion of alarm systems at a continuously attended supervising                            immediately retransmitted to the communications center.
S station and between the protected premises and the continu-                      (8)* Alarm signals that are verified as unwanted alarms shall
                                                                                          be reported to the responsible fire department in a
   ously attended supervising station shall comply with the                               manner and at a frequency specified by the responsible
                                                                                          fire department.
U requirements of this chapter.                                                 · 26.2.3 Alarm Signal Content. Where required by the enforc-
                                                                                   ing authority, governing laws, codes, or standards, alarm signals
   26.1.1* Where any system regulated by this Code sends signals                   transmitted to a supervising station shall be by addressable
                                                                                   device or zone identification.
L to a supervising station, the entire system shall become a super-             N 26.2.4 Carbon Monoxide Signal Disposition.
                                                                                N 26.2.4.1 Carbon Monoxide Alarm Signal Disposition.
   vising station alarm system.                                                 N 26.2.4.1.1 A carbon monoxide alarm signal shall take prece-
                                                                                   dence over supervisory or trouble signals.
A 26.1.2 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 12, 14, and 23                     N 26.2.4.1.2 The actuation of a carbon monoxide detector or
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U shall apply unless otherwise noted in this chapter.            system shall be distinctively indicated as a carbon monoxide
                                                                                   alarm signal.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 26.1.3 The requirements of this chapter shall not apply toN 26.2.4.1.3* Servicing of a system in alarm that cannot be reset
                                                                                   shall be in accordance with Chapter 14 and shall occur within
ID Chapter 29 unless otherwise noted.                                              4 hours of the carbon monoxide alarm signal.
                                                                                N 26.2.4.1.4 Upon receipt of a carbon monoxide alarm signal,
   26.2 General.                                                                   supervising station personnel shall perform the following
                                                                                   actions in the order listed:
IV 26.2.1 Alarm Signal Disposition.                                                (1) Where required by the emergency response agency,
D 26.2.1.1 Alarm signals initiated by manual fire alarm boxes,

   automatic fire detectors, waterflow from the automatic sprin-

IN kler system, or actuation of other fire suppression system(s) or

   equipment shall be treated as fire alarm signals.
   26.2.1.2* Except as permitted by 26.2.2 and 29.10.9.7, all fire

R alarm signals received by a supervising station shall be immedi-

   ately retransmitted to the communications center.

O  26.2.1.3 Fire alarm signals received at the supervising station
Fshall be retransmitted to the communications center by one of
the following methods:                                                          immediately retransmit indication of the carbon monox-

(1) Signals that are identified by zone at the supervising                             ide alarm signal to the communications center
       station shall be retransmitted by zone to the communica-                 (2) Contact the responsible party(s) in accordance with the
       tions center.
                                                                                       notification plan
(2) Signals that are identified as an individual point or points                (3) Once contacted, inform the subscriber to take one of the
                                                                                actions in (a) or (b):
at the supervising station shall be retransmitted by point
or points to the communications center.
(3)* Signals that are received at the supervising station as                    (a) Where the subscriber has a carbon monoxide emer-
                                                                                gency response plan, implement the plan
          events shall be retransmitted by event to the communica-              (b) Where the subscriber has no carbon monoxide
          tions center.                                                                emergency response plan:
· 26.2.2* Fire Alarm Signal Verification. For applications other                       i. Immediately move to fresh air, either outdoors
than those addressed under the scope of 29.10.9.7, supervising                  or by an open door or window
station personnel shall attempt to verify alarm signals prior to                ii. Verify that all occupants are accounted for

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-152                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              iii. Do not re-enter the premises or move away                   Systems, within an environment that is maintained at a level
              from an open door or window until the emer-                      within the temperature, humidity, and voltage rating range of
              gency service responders have arrived, the                       the equipment, and the equipment manufacturer's published
              premises have been aired out, and the alarm                      instructions are available for examination.
              returns to its normal condition
                                                                               26.2.9 Qualification of Supervising Station Operators. Super-
N 26.2.4.2 Carbon Monoxide Trouble Signal Disposition.                         vising station operators shall be qualified in accordance with
                                                                               the requirements of 10.5.5.
N 26.2.4.2.1 Upon receipt of a carbon monoxide trouble signal,
the responsible party(s) shall be notified.                                    26.3 Central Station Service Alarm Systems. Alarm systems
                                                                               used to provide central station service shall comply with the
N 26.2.4.2.2 Servicing of a system in trouble shall be in accord-              general requirements and the use requirements of
   ance with Chapter 14 and shall occur within 4 hours of the                  Section 26.3.
   trouble indication.                                                         26.3.1 System Scope. Alarm systems for central station service
                                                                               shall include the central station physical plant, exterior
N 26.2.4.2.3 Carbon monoxide end-of-life signals, if provided,                 communications channels, subsidiary stations, and alarm and
   shall be treated as trouble signals.                                        signaling equipment located at the protected premises.
                                                                               26.3.2* Service Scope. Section 26.3 shall apply to central
Y 26.2.5 Restoral Signals.                                                     station service, which consists of the following elements:
L 26.2.5.1 All supervising station fire alarm systems shall be                 (1) Installation of alarm transmitters
N programmed to report restoral signals to the supervising                     (2) Alarm, guard, supervisory, and trouble signal monitoring
                                                                               (3) Retransmission
   station of all alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals upon resto-          (4) Associated record keeping and reporting
                                                                               (5) Testing and maintenance
O ration of the activation.                                                    (6) Runner service
                                                                               26.3.3 Contract Requirements. The central station service
 26.2.5.2 Except as permitted in 26.2.5.2.2, any signal received               elements shall be provided under contract to a subscriber by a
                                                                               prime contractor that has a listing for central station fire alarm
E by the supervising station that has not restored to normal                   services.
                                                                               26.3.3.1 The prime contractor shall be responsible for code-
   condition within 24 hours of initial receipt shall be redisplayed           compliant service delivery, regardless of any subcontracting
                                                                               arrangements involved in the delivery of service.
S to an operator as a nonrestored signal.                                      26.3.3.2 Signal monitoring, retransmission, and associated
                                                                               recordkeeping and reporting shall be provided by a company
N 26.2.5.2.1 A nonrestored signal that is redisplayed shall be                 that has a listing for central station alarm services covering
                                                                               these elements.
U reported to the subscriber.                                                  26.3.4* Indication of Central Station Service. The prime
L N 26.2.5.2.2* Paragraph 26.2.5.2 shall not apply to signals                  contractor shall conspicuously indicate that the alarm system
                                                                               providing service at a protected premises complies with all the
   received as a result of a scheduled impairment.                             requirements of this Code through the use of a systematic
                                                                               follow-up program under the control of the organization that
A 26.2.6 Multiple Buildings. For multiple building premises, the               has listed the prime contractor.
                                                                               26.3.4.1* Documentation indicating Code compliance of the
   requirements of 10.18.5.3 shall apply to the alarm, supervisory,            alarm system shall be issued by the organization that has listed
                                                                               the prime contractor.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U and trouble signals transmitted to the supervising station.26.3.4.2 The documentation shall include, at a minimum, the
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 26.2.7* Change of Service.

   26.2.7.1* Supervising station customers or clients and the

IV authority having jurisdiction shall be notified in writing by the

   new supervising station within 30 calendar days of any change
   of service provider that results in signals from the client's prop-

D erty being handled by a new supervising station.
IN 26.2.7.2 Where the new provider of supervising station serv-

   ices covered by 26.2.7.1 also provides the required testing, the
   new provider shall test zones, points, and signals from each
   affected property in accordance with the requirements of

R Chapter 14 at or prior to the next scheduled periodic test.
O 26.2.7.3 Where the new provider of supervising station serv-
Fices covered by 26.2.7.1 does not provide the required testing,
the new provider shall notify the alarm system owner of the                    following information:
need to test zones, points, and signals from each affected prop-
erty in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 14 prior                   (1) Name of the prime contractor involved with the ongoing
to or at the next scheduled periodic test.                                            Code compliance of the central station service

                                                                               (2)* Full description of the alarm system as installed
                                                                               (3) Issue and expiration dates of the documentation
26.2.7.4 The supervising station shall notify the authority                    (4) Name, address, and contact information of the organiza-
having jurisdiction prior to terminating service.                              tion issuing the document

26.2.8 Supervising Station Signal Processing Equipment.                        (5) Identification of the authority(ies) having jurisdiction for
Signal processing equipment located at the supervising station
listed to ANSI/UL 60950, Information Technology Equipment --                   the central station service installation

Safety -- Part 1: General Requirements, and used for computer-                 26.3.4.3 The documentation shall be physically posted within
aided alarm and supervisory signal processing shall not be                     3 ft (1 m) of the control unit, and copies of the documentation
required to comply with 10.3.5 provided it is installed and oper-              shall be made available to the authority(ies) having jurisdiction
ated conforming to ANSI/UL 1981, Central Station Automation                    upon request.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                     SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                                  72-153

26.3.4.4 A central repository of issued documentation, accessi-                        26.3.5.2.9 A plan of action to provide for restoration of serv-
ble to the authority having jurisdiction, shall be maintained by                       ices specified by this Code shall exist for each subsidiary
the organization that has listed the prime contractor.                                 station.

26.3.4.5* Alarm system service that does not comply with all                           (A) This plan shall provide for restoration of services within
the requirements of Section 26.3 shall not be designated as                            4 hours of any impairment that causes loss of signals from the
central station service.                                                               subsidiary station to the central station.

26.3.4.6* For the purpose of Section 26.3, the subscriber shall                        (B) An exercise to demonstrate the adequacy of the plan shall
notify the prime contractor, in writing, of the identity of the                        be conducted at least annually.
authority(ies) having jurisdiction.
                                                                                       26.3.6 Equipment.
 26.3.4.7 The authority(ies) having jurisdiction identified in
   26.3.4.2(5) shall be notified within 30 calendar days of the                        26.3.6.1 The central station and all subsidiary stations shall be
   expiration or cancellation by the organization that has listed                      equipped so as to receive and record all signals in accordance
   the prime contractor.                                                               with 26.6.6.
                                                                                       26.3.6.2 Circuit-adjusting means for emergency operation
Y 26.3.4.8 The subscriber shall surrender expired or canceled                          shall be permitted to be automatic or to be provided through
L documentation to the prime contractor within 30 days of the                          manual operation upon receipt of a trouble signal.
                                                                                       26.3.6.3 Computer-aided alarm and supervisory signal­
   termination date.                                                                   processing hardware and software shall be listed for the
                                                                                       purpose.
N 26.3.5 Facilities.                                                                   26.3.6.4 Power supplies shall comply with the requirements of
O 26.3.5.1 The central station building or that portion of a                           Chapter 10.
                                                                                       26.3.6.5 Transmission means shall comply with the require-
   building occupied by a central station shall conform to the                         ments of Section 26.6.
   construction, fire protection, restricted access, emergency light-                  26.3.6.6* Two independent means shall be provided to
                                                                                       retransmit an alarm signal to the designated communications
E ing, and power facilities requirements of the latest edition of                      center.
                                                                                       26.3.6.6.1 The use of a universal emergency number, such as
   ANSI/UL 827, Standard for Central-Station Alarm Services.                           the 911 public safety answering point, shall not meet the intent
                                                                                       of this Code for the principal means of retransmission.
S 26.3.5.2 Subsidiary station buildings or those portions of                           26.3.6.6.2 If the principal means of retransmission is not
U buildings occupied by subsidiary stations shall conform to the                       equipped to allow the communications center to acknowledge
                                                                                       receipt of each alarm report, both means shall be used to
   construction, fire protection, restricted access, emergency light-                  retransmit.
                                                                                       26.3.6.6.3 The retransmission means shall be tested in accord-
L ing, and power facilities requirements of the latest edition of                      ance with Chapter 14.
                                                                                       26.3.6.6.4 The retransmission signal and the time and date of
   ANSI/UL 827, Standard for Central-Station Alarm Services.                           retransmission shall be recorded at the central station.
                                                                                       26.3.7 Personnel.
A 26.3.5.2.1 All intrusion, fire, power, and environmental                             26.3.7.1 The central station shall have not less than two quali-
                                                                                       fied operators on duty at the central station at all times to
   control systems for subsidiary station buildings shall be moni-                     ensure disposition of signals in accordance with the require-
                                                                                       ments of 26.3.8.3.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tored by the central station in accordance with 26.3.5.            26.3.7.2 Operation and supervision shall be the primary func-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  26.3.5.2.2 The subsidiary facility shall be inspected at least

   monthly by central station personnel for the purpose of verify-
   ing the operation and condition of all supervised equipment,

IV telephones, energy storage systems, batteries, and generators,

   in accordance with the manufacturer's published instructions.

D 26.3.5.2.3 In the event of the failure of equipment at the

   subsidiary station or the communications channel to the

IN central station, a backup shall be operational within

   90 seconds.
   26.3.5.2.4 With respect to 26.3.5.2.3, restoration of a failed

R unit shall be accomplished within 5 days.
O26.3.5.2.5 Each communications channel shall be continu-

   ously supervised between the subsidiary station and the central

Fstation.
 26.3.5.2.6 When the communications channel between the                                tions of the operators, and no other interest or activity shall
   subsidiary station and the supervising station fails, the commu-                    take precedence over the protective service.

nications shall be switched to an alternate path.                    N 26.3.8 Procedures.

N 26.3.5.2.7 Managed facilities-based voice networks shall be        N 26.3.8.1 The procedural requirements outlined in
   used only to provide an alternate path between the subsidiary        Section 26.2 shall be followed.
   station and the supervising station.
   26.3.5.2.8 In the subsidiary station, there shall be a communi-   N 26.3.8.2 The additional procedural requirements outlined in
   cations path, such as a cellular telephone, that is independent      26.3.8 shall also be followed.
   of the telephone cable between the subsidiary station and the
   serving wire center.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-154                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

26.3.8.3 Disposition of Signals.                                                                      (1)* If a received trouble signal does not restore within
                                                                                                             15 minutes, communicate immediately with persons
26.3.8.3.1 Alarm Signals. The central station shall perform                                                  designated by the subscriber
the following actions:                                                                                (2) Dispatch personnel to arrive within 4 hours to initiate

(1)* Retransmit the alarm to the communications center in                                             maintenance, if necessary
accordance with 26.2.1 unless the signal is a result of a                                             (3) When the interruption is more than 8 hours, provide
prearranged test.                                                                                     notice to the subscriber and the fire department if so
(2) Dispatch a runner or technician to the protected prem-                                            required by the authority having jurisdiction as to the
ises to arrive within 2 hours after receipt of an alarm                                               nature of the interruption, the time of occurrence, and
signal if equipment needs to be manually reset by the                                                 the restoration of service
prime contractor. Except where prohibited by the author-
ity having jurisdiction, the runner or technician shall be                                            26.3.8.3.5 Test Signals.

           permitted to be recalled prior to arrival at the premises if                               26.3.8.3.5.1 All test signals received shall be recorded to indi-
           a qualified representative of the subscriber at the prem-                                  cate date, time, and type.
           ises can provide the necessary resetting of the equipment                                  26.3.8.3.5.2 Test signals initiated by the subscriber, including
                                                                                                      those for the benefit of an authority having jurisdiction, shall
  Y and is able to place the system back in operating condi-                                          be acknowledged by central station personnel whenever the
                                                                                                      subscriber or authority inquires.
           tion.                                                                                      26.3.8.3.5.3* Any test signal not received by the central station
                                                                                                      shall be investigated immediately, and action shall be taken to
L (3) Immediately notify the subscriber unless the signal is a                                        reestablish system integrity.
           result of a prearranged test.                                                              26.3.8.3.5.4 The central station shall dispatch personnel to
                                                                                                      arrive within 2 hours if protected premises equipment needs to
N (4) Provide notice to the subscriber or authority having juris-                                     be manually reset after testing.
           diction, or both, if required.                                                             26.3.8.3.5.5 The prime contractor shall provide each of its
                                                                                                      representatives and each alarm system user with a unique
O · 26.3.8.3.2 Guard's Tour Supervisory Signal.                                                       personal identification code.
E 26.3.8.3.2.1 Upon failure to receive a guard's tour supervisory                                     26.3.8.3.5.6 In order to authorize the placing of an alarm
                                                                                                      system into test status, a representative of the prime contractor
   signal within a 15-minute maximum grace period, the central                                        or an alarm system user shall first provide the central station
                                                                                                      with his or her personal identification code.
S station shall perform the following actions:                                                        26.3.9 Record Keeping and Reporting.
                                                                                                      26.3.9.1 Complete records of all signals received shall be
   (1) Communicate without unreasonable delay with personnel                                          retained for at least 1 year.
                                                                                                      26.3.9.2 Testing and maintenance records shall be retained as
  U at the protected premises                                                                         required by 14.6.3.
                                                                                                      26.3.9.3 The central station shall make arrangements to
   (2) Dispatch a runner to the protected premises to arrive                                          furnish reports of signals received to the authority having juris-
                                                                                                      diction in a manner approved by the authority having jurisdic-
  L within 30 minutes of the delinquency if communications                                            tion.
                                                                                                      26.3.10 Testing and Maintenance. Testing and maintenance
           cannot be established                                                                      for central station service shall be performed in accordance
                                                                                                      with Chapter 14.
A (3) Report all delinquencies to the subscriber or authority                                         26.4 Proprietary Supervising Station Alarm Systems.
           having jurisdiction, or both, if required

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 26.3.8.3.2.2 Failure of the guard to follow a prescribed route
ID in transmitting signals shall be handled as a delinquency.

 26.3.8.3.3* Supervisory Signals. Upon receipt of a supervi-

IV sory signal that is not prearranged, the central station shall

   perform the following actions:
   (1)* Communicate immediately with the persons designated

  D by the subscriber and notify the fire department, law

           enforcement agency, or both when required by the

  IN authority having jurisdiction

   (2) Dispatch a runner or maintenance person to arrive within
           2 hours to investigate unless the supervisory signal is

  R cleared in accordance with a scheduled procedure deter-

           mined by 26.3.8.3.3(1)

O (3) Notify the authority having jurisdiction and the
           subscriber when sprinkler systems or other fire suppres-
 Fsion systems or equipment have been wholly or partially
       out of service for 8 hours                                   26.4.1 Application.
(4) When service has been restored, provide notice to the        N 26.4.1.1 Supervising facilities of proprietary alarm systems
                                                                                                      shall comply with the operating procedures of Section 26.4.
       subscriber and the authority having jurisdiction of the
nature of the signal, the time of occurrence, and the
restoration of service when equipment has been out of
service for 8 hours or more                                      N 26.4.1.2 The facilities, equipment, personnel, operation, test-
                                                                    ing, and maintenance of the proprietary supervising station
                                                                                                      shall also comply with Section 26.4.
26.3.8.3.4 Trouble Signals. Upon receipt of trouble signals or
other signals pertaining solely to matters of equipment mainte-
nance of the alarm systems, the central station shall perform                                         26.4.2 General.

the following actions:                                                                                26.4.2.1 Proprietary supervising stations shall be operated by
                                                                                                      trained, competent personnel in constant attendance who are
                                                                                                      responsible to the owner of the protected property.

2019 Edition            Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                             SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                                                       72-155

26.4.2.2 The protected property shall be either a contiguous        26.4.4.2 Signal-Alerting Equipment.
property or noncontiguous properties under one ownership.           26.4.4.2.1 The proprietary supervising station shall have, in
26.4.2.3 If a protected premises control unit is integral to or     addition to a recording device, two different means for alerting
colocated with the supervising station equipment, the require-      the operator when each signal is received that indicates a
ments of Section 26.6 shall not apply.                              change of state of any connected initiating device circuit.

26.4.3 Facilities.                                                                 26.4.4.2.1.1 One of these means shall be an audible signal,
                                                                                   which shall persist until manually acknowledged.
26.4.3.1* The proprietary supervising station shall be located
in either of the following:                                                        26.4.4.2.1.2 Means shall include the receipt of alarm, supervi-
                                                                                   sory, and trouble signals, including signals indicating restora-
(1) Fire-resistive, detached building                                              tion.
(2) A fire-resistive room protected from the hazardous parts
           of the building
   26.4.3.2 Access to the proprietary supervising station shall be                 26.4.4.2.1.3 If means is provided in the proprietary supervis-
   restricted to those persons directly concerned with the imple-                  ing station to identify the type of signal received, a common
                                                                                   audible indicating appliance shall be permitted to be used for
Y mentation and direction of emergency action and procedure.                       alarm, supervisory, and trouble indication.
L 26.4.3.3 The proprietary supervising station, as well as                         26.4.4.2.1.4 At a proprietary supervising station, an audible
N remotely located power rooms for batteries or engine-driven                      trouble signal shall be permitted to be silenced, provided that
                                                                                   the act of silencing does not prevent the signal from operating
   generators, shall be provided with portable fire extinguishers                  immediately upon receipt of a subsequent trouble signal.
   that comply with the requirements of NFPA 10.                                   26.4.4.2.2 All signals required to be received by the propriet-
                                                                                   ary supervising station that show a change in status shall be
O 26.4.3.4 The emergency lighting system shall comply with the                     automatically and permanently recorded, including time and
                                                                                   date of occurrence, in a form that expedites operator interpre-
   requirements of 26.4.3.4.1 through 26.4.3.4.3.                                  tation in accordance with any one of the means detailed in
                                                                                   26.4.4.2.2.1 through 26.4.4.2.2.4.
E 26.4.3.4.1 The proprietary supervising station shall be provi-                   26.4.4.2.2.1 If a visual display is used that automatically
S ded with an automatic emergency lighting system.                                 provides change of status information for each required signal,
U 26.4.3.4.2 The emergency source shall be independent of the                      including type and location of occurrence, any form of auto-
                                                                                   matic permanent visual record shall be permitted.
   primary lighting source.                                                        (A) The recorded information shall include the content
                                                                                   described in 26.4.4.2.2.
L 26.4.3.4.3 In the event of a loss of the primary lighting for the                (B) The visual display shall show status information content at
                                                                                   all times and be distinctly different after the operator has
   supervising station, the emergency lighting system shall provide                manually acknowledged each signal.
                                                                                   (C) Acknowledgment shall produce recorded information
A illumination for a period of not less than 26 hours to permit                    indicating the time and date of acknowledgment.
                                                                                   26.4.4.2.2.2 If a visual display is not provided, required signal
   the operators to carry on operations and shall be tested in                     content information shall be automatically recorded on dupli-
                                                                                   cate, permanent visual recording instruments.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U accordance with the requirements of Chapter 14.                26.4.4.2.2.3 One recording instrument shall be used for
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  26.4.3.5 If 25 or more protected buildings or premises arerecording all incoming signals, while the other shall be used
                                                                                   for required alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals only.
   connected to a subsidiary station, both of the following shall be               (A) Failure to acknowledge a signal shall not prevent subse-
   provided at the subsidiary station:                                             quent signals from recording.

IV (1) Automatic means for receiving and recording signals

   (2) A telephone

D 26.4.3.6* Retransmission Means. The means of retransmis-
IN sion shall be accepted by the authority having jurisdiction and

   shall be in accordance with 26.3.6.6, 26.5.4.4, or Chapter 27.
   26.4.4 Equipment.

R 26.4.4.1 Signal-Receiving Equipment.
O26.4.4.1.1 Signal-receiving equipment in a proprietary super-
Fvising station shall comply with 26.4.4.
26.4.4.1.2 Provision shall be made to designate the building in                    (B) Restoration of the signal to its prior condition shall be
which a signal originates.                                                         recorded.

26.4.4.1.3* The floor, section, or other subdivision of the                        26.4.4.2.2.4 In the event that a system combines the use of a
building in which a signal originates shall be designated at the                   sequential visual display and recorded permanent visual
proprietary supervising station or at the building that is protec-                 presentation, the required signal content information shall be
ted where required by the authority having jurisdiction.                           displayed and recorded.

26.4.4.1.4 Designation, as required by 26.4.4.1.2 and                              (A) The visual information component shall be retained
26.4.4.1.3, shall use private-mode notification appliances                         either on the display until manually acknowledged or repeated
approved by the authority having jurisdiction.                                     at intervals not greater than 5 seconds, for durations of

                                                                                   2 seconds each, until manually acknowledged.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-156           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(B) Each new displayed status change shall be accompanied                          15-minute intervals if that runner is not responsible for another
by an audible indication that persists until manual acknowledg-                    protected premises.
ment of the signal is performed.                                                   26.4.5.6 The primary duties of the operator(s) shall be to
26.4.4.3* Redisplay of Status. A means shall be provided for                       monitor signals, operate the system, and take such action as
the operator to redisplay the status of required signal-initiating                 shall be required by the authority having jurisdiction.
inputs that have been acknowledged but not yet restored.                           26.4.5.7 The operator(s) shall not be assigned any additional
26.4.4.3.1 If the system retains the signal on the visual display                  duties that would take precedence over the primary duties.
until manually acknowledged, subsequent recorded presenta-                         26.4.6 Operations.
tions shall not be inhibited upon failure to acknowledge.

26.4.4.3.2 Alarm signals shall be segregated on a separate N 26.4.6.1 Procedures.
   visual display in this configuration unless they are given priority
   status on the common visual display.                                            N 26.4.6.1.1 The procedural requirements outlined in
   26.4.4.4 Display Rate. To facilitate the prompt receipt of                         Section 26.2 shall be followed.

Y alarm signals from systems handling other types of signals that                  N 26.4.6.1.2 The additional procedural requirements outlined
L are able to produce multiple simultaneous status changes, the                       in 26.4.6.1 shall also be followed.
                                                                                      26.4.6.1.3 Communications and Transmission Channels.
   requirements of either of the following shall be met:                              26.4.6.1.3.1 All communications and transmission channels
                                                                                      used to receive signals between the proprietary supervising
N (1) Record simultaneous status changes at a rate not slower                         station and the protected premises control unit shall be oper-
          than either a quantity of 50 or 10 percent of the total                     ated manually or automatically once every 24 hours to verify
 O number of initiating device circuits connected, within                             operation.
          90 seconds, whichever number is smaller, without loss of                    26.4.6.1.3.2 If a communications or transmission channel fails
          any signal                                                                  to operate, the operator shall immediately notify the person(s)
                                                                                      identified by the owner or authority having jurisdiction.
E (2) Display or record alarm signals at a rate not slower than                       26.4.6.1.3.3* Coded Retransmission. Retransmission by
          one every 10 seconds, regardless of the rate or number of                   coded signals shall be confirmed by two-way voice communica-
 S status changes occurring, without loss of any signals                              tions indicating the nature of the alarm.
                                                                                      26.4.6.1.4 Operator Controls.
U 26.4.4.5 Trouble Signals. Trouble signals and their restoration                     26.4.6.1.4.1 All operator controls at the proprietary supervis-
                                                                                      ing station(s) designated by the authority having jurisdiction
   shall be automatically indicated and recorded at the propriet-                     shall be operated at each change of shift.
                                                                                      26.4.6.1.4.2 If operator controls fail, the operator shall imme-
L ary supervising station.                                                            diately notify the person(s) identified by the owner or authority
                                                                                      having jurisdiction.
   26.4.4.5.1 The recorded information for the occurrence of                          26.4.6.1.5 Retransmission. Indication of a fire shall be imme-
                                                                                      diately retransmitted to the communications center or other
A any trouble condition of signaling line circuit, leg facility, or                   locations accepted by the authority having jurisdiction, indicat-
                                                                                      ing the building or group of buildings from which the alarm
   trunk facility that prevents receipt of alarm signals at the                       has been received.
                                                                                      26.4.6.1.6 Dispositions of Signals.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U proprietary supervising station shall be such that the operator   26.4.6.1.6.1 Alarms. Upon receipt of an alarm signal, the
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} is able to determine the presence of the trouble condition.   proprietary supervising station operator shall initiate action to
                                                                                      perform the following:
   26.4.4.5.2 Trouble conditions in a leg facility shall not affect

IV or delay receipt of signals at the proprietary supervising station

   from other leg facilities on the same trunk facility.
   26.4.5 Personnel.

D 26.4.5.1 Except as permitted in 26.4.5.2, the proprietary
IN supervising station shall be staffed at all times by a minimum of

   two qualified operators.
N 26.4.5.2 Where the means for transmitting alarms to the

R communications center is automatic, the proprietary supervis-

   ing station shall be permitted to be staffed by a minimum of

O one qualified operator at all times.
FN 26.4.5.3 Where the proprietary supervising station is staffed by
two qualified operators, one of the operators shall be permitted                   (1) Notify the communications center, the emergency
to be a runner.                                                                    response team, and such other parties as the authority
                                                                                          having jurisdiction requires in accordance with 26.2.1
26.4.5.4 When the runner is not in attendance at the propriet-                     (2) Dispatch a runner or technician to the alarm location to
ary supervising station, the runner shall establish two-way
communications with the station at intervals not exceeding                                arrive within 2 hours after receipt of a signal
15 minutes, unless otherwise permitted by 26.4.5.5.                                (3) Restore the system as soon as possible after disposition of

                                                                                          the cause of the alarm signal

26.4.5.5 Where two or more operators are on duty in the                            26.4.6.1.6.2 Guard's Tour Supervisory Signal. If a guard's
supervising station, a runner physically in attendance at a                        tour supervisory signal is not received from a guard within a 15-
noncontiguous protected premises and immediately available                         minute maximum grace period, or if a guard fails to follow a
via telephone or other approved means of communication                             prescribed route in transmitting the signals (where a prescri-
shall not be required to maintain two-way communications at                        bed route has been established), the proprietary supervising
                                                                                   station operator shall initiate action to perform the following:

2019 Edition     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                 SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                                                    72-157

(1) Communicate at once with the protected areas or prem-                        26.5.1.2 The installation, maintenance, testing, and use of a
ises by telephone, radio, calling back over the system                           remote supervising station alarm system that serves properties
circuit, or other means accepted by the authority having                         under various ownership from a remote supervising station
jurisdiction                                                                     shall comply with the requirements of Section 26.5.
(2) Dispatch a runner to arrive within 30 minutes to investi-
       gate the delinquency if communications with the guard                     26.5.1.3 Remote supervising station physical facilities, equip-
       cannot be immediately established                                         ment, operating personnel, response, retransmission, signals,
                                                                                 reports, and testing shall comply with the minimum require-
26.4.6.1.6.3 Supervisory Signals. Upon receipt of sprinkler                      ments of Section 26.5.
system and other supervisory signals, the proprietary supervis-
ing station operator shall initiate action to perform the follow-                26.5.1.4 Remote supervising station alarm systems shall
ing, if required:                                                                provide an automatic audible and visible indication of alarm,
                                                                                 supervisory, and trouble conditions at a location remote from
   (1) Communicate immediately with the designated person(s)                        the protected premises.
          to ascertain the reason for the signal                                  26.5.1.5 Audible or visual notification appliances at the

   (2) Dispatch personnel to arrive within 2 hours to investigate,                  protected premises shall comply with 26.5.1.5.1 and 26.5.1.5.2.
                                                                                 N 26.5.1.5.1 Audible or visual notification appliances shall not
  Y unless supervisory conditions are immediately restored
                                                                                    be required other than those required at the remote supervis-
   (3) Notify the fire department if required by the authority                      ing station.
                                                                                 N 26.5.1.5.2 Where audible or visual appliances are provided at
  L having jurisdiction                                                             the protected premises, the alarm signals, circuits, and controls
                                                                                    shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 18 and Chapter 23
   (4) Notify the authority having jurisdiction when sprinkler                      in addition to the provisions of Section 26.5.
                                                                                    26.5.1.6 The loading capacities of the remote supervising
  N systems are wholly or partially out of service for 8 hours                      station equipment for any approved method of transmission
                                                                                    shall be as designated in Section 26.6.
          or more                                                                   26.5.2 Indication of Remote Station Service.
                                                                                 N 26.5.2.1 Owners utilizing remote station alarm systems shall
O (5)* Provide written notice to the authority having jurisdiction                  provide annual documentation to the authority having jurisdic-
          as to the nature of the signal, time of occurrence, and                   tion identifying the party responsible for the inspection, test-
          restoration of service when equipment has been out of                     ing, and maintenance requirements of Chapter 14.
  E service for 8 hours or more                                                  N 26.5.2.2 The documentation required by 26.5.2.1 shall take
                                                                                    one of the following forms:
S 26.4.6.1.6.4 Trouble Signals. Upon receipt of trouble signals                     (1)* Affidavit attesting to the responsibilities and qualifications

   or other signals pertaining solely to matters of equipment                               of the parties performing the inspection, testing, and
                                                                                            maintenance and accepting responsibility of compliance
U maintenance of the alarm system, the proprietary supervising                              with Chapter 14 and signed by a representative of the
                                                                                            service provider
   station operator shall initiate action to perform the following,                 (2) Documentation indicating code compliance of the
                                                                                            remote station alarm system issued by the organization
L if required:                                                                              that listed the service provider
                                                                                    (3) Other documentation acceptable to the authority having
   (1) Communicate immediately with the designated person(s)                                jurisdiction
                                                                                    26.5.3* Facilities.
  A to ascertain reason for the signal                                              26.5.3.1 Alarm systems utilizing remote supervising station
                                                                                    connections shall transmit alarm and supervisory signals to a
   (2) Dispatch personnel to arrive within 4 hours to initiate                      facility meeting the requirements of 26.5.3.1.1, 26.5.3.1.2,
                                                                                    26.5.3.1.3, or 26.5.3.1.4.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U maintenance, if necessary

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (3) Notify the fire department if required by the authority

  ID having jurisdiction

   (4) Notify the authority having jurisdiction when interruption

  IV of service exists for 4 hours or more

   (5) When equipment has been out of service for 8 hours or
          more, provide written notice to the authority having juris-

  D diction as to the nature of the signal, time of occurrence,

          and restoration of service

IN 26.4.7 Record Keeping and Reporting.

   26.4.7.1 Complete records of all signals received shall be

R retained for at least 1 year.

   26.4.7.2 Testing and maintenance records shall be retained as

Orequired by 14.6.3.
F26.4.7.3 The proprietary supervising station shall make

   arrangements to furnish reports of signals received to the
   authority having jurisdiction in a manner approved by the
authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                                 26.5.3.1.1 Alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals shall be
                                                                                 permitted to be received at a communications center that
26.4.8 Testing and Maintenance. Testing and maintenance of                       complies with the requirements of NFPA 1221.
proprietary alarm systems shall be performed in accordance
with Chapter 14.
                                                                                 26.5.3.1.2 Alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals shall be
                                                                                 permitted to be received at the fire station or at the govern-
26.5 Remote Supervising Station Alarm Systems.                                   mental agency that has public responsibility for taking prescri-

26.5.1 Application and General.                                                  bed action to ensure response upon receipt of an alarm signal.

26.5.1.1 Section 26.5 shall apply where central station service                  26.5.3.1.3 Where permitted by the authority having jurisdic-
is neither required nor elected.                                                 tion, alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals shall be permitted
                                                                                 to be received at a listed central supervising station.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-158             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

   26.5.3.1.4* Where permitted by the authority having jurisdic-                   station at all times to ensure disposition of signals in accord-
   tion, alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals shall be permitted                ance with the requirements of 26.5.6.
   to be received at an alternate location approved by the author-                 26.5.5.2 Duties pertaining to other than operation of the
   ity having jurisdiction.                                                        remote supervising station receiving and transmitting equip-
 26.5.3.2* Trouble signals shall be permitted to be received at                    ment shall be permitted, subject to the approval of the author-
   locations in accordance with 26.5.3.2.1 and 26.5.3.2.2.                         ity having jurisdiction.

N 26.5.3.2.1 Trouble signals shall be permitted to be received at                  26.5.6 Procedures.
an approved location that has personnel on duty who are
trained to recognize the type of signal received and take             26.5.6.1 The procedural requirements               outlined  in
prescribed action.                                                      Section 26.2 shall be followed.

N 26.5.3.2.2 Trouble signals shall be permitted to be received at                     26.5.6.2 The additional procedural requirements outlined in
   an approved location other than that which receives alarm and                      26.5.6 shall also be followed.
   supervisory signals.                                                            N 26.5.6.3 Disposition of Signals.
                                                                                   N 26.5.6.3.1 Alarm Signals. The remote station shall perform
Y 26.5.3.3 If locations other than the communications center                          the following actions:
L are used for the receipt of signals, access to receiving equip-                     (1) If the remote station is at a location other than the

   ment shall be restricted in accordance with the requirements of                           communications center, retransmit alarm signals to the
                                                                                             communications center in accordance with 26.2.1.
N the authority having jurisdiction.                                                  (2) Immediately notify the owner or the owner's designated
                                                                                             representative.
   26.5.4 Equipment.                                                               N 26.5.6.3.2 Supervisory Signals. Upon receipt of a supervisory
                                                                                      signal that is not prearranged, the remote station shall perform
O 26.5.4.1 Signal-receiving equipment shall indicate receipt of                       the following actions:
                                                                                      (1) Immediately notify the owner or the owner's designated
   each signal both audibly and visibly.                                                     representative.
                                                                                      (2) Where required, notify the authority having jurisdiction.
E 26.5.4.1.1 Audible signals shall meet the requirements of                        N 26.5.6.3.3 Trouble Signals.
S Chapter 18 for the private operating mode.                                       N 26.5.6.3.3.1 Upon receipt of a trouble signal that is not prear-
                                                                                      ranged, the remote station shall perform the following action:
   26.5.4.1.2 Means for silencing alarm, supervisory, and trouble                     (1) Immediately notify the owner or the owner's designated
                                                                                             representative.
U signals shall be provided and shall be arranged so that subse-                      (2) Where required, notify the authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                                   N 26.5.6.3.3.2 For trouble signals, the remote station operator
   quent signals shall re-sound.                                                      shall be permitted to delay transmission for 15 minutes to allow
                                                                                      for a status change in the signal that would resolve the trouble
L 26.5.4.1.3 A trouble signal shall be received when the system                       signal.
A or any portion of the system at the protected premises is placed                 N 26.5.6.3.3.3 If a trouble restoral signal is received within
                                                                                      15 minutes, the operator shall not be required to notify the
   in a bypass or test mode.                                                          owner or the owner's designated representative or the authority
                                                                                      having jurisdiction.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 26.5.4.1.4 An audible and visible indication shall be provided    26.5.7 Operations. All operator controls at the remote super-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} upon restoration of the system after receipt of any signal.   vising station shall be operated at the beginning of each shift or
                                                                                      change in personnel, and the status of all alarm, supervisory,
   26.5.4.1.5 If visible means are provided in the remote super-                      and trouble signals shall be noted and recorded.

IV vising station to identify the type of signal received, a common

   audible notification appliance shall be permitted to be used.
   26.5.4.2 Power supplies shall comply with the requirements of

D Chapter 10.
IN 26.5.4.3 Transmission means shall comply with the require-

   ments of Section 26.6.
 26.5.4.4 Retransmission of an alarm signal, if required, shall

R be by one of the following methods, which appear in descend-

   ing order of preference as follows:

O (1) A dedicated circuit that is independent of any switched
 Ftelephone network and is capable of voice or data

           communications
(2) A one-way (outgoing only) telephone at the remote
supervising station that utilizes a managed facilities-based                       26.5.8 Record Keeping and Reporting.

voice network and is used primarily for voice transmission                         26.5.8.1 A permanent record of the time, date, and location
                                                                                   of all signals and restorations received and the action taken
       of alarms to a telephone at the communications center                       shall be maintained for at least 1 year and shall be able to be
       that cannot be used for outgoing calls                                      provided to the authority having jurisdiction.
(3) A private radio system using the fire department
       frequency, where permitted by the fire department
(4) Other methods accepted by the authority having jurisdic-                       26.5.8.2 Testing and maintenance records shall be retained as
                                                                                   required in 14.6.3.
       tion
                                                                                   26.5.8.3 Records shall be permitted to be created by manual
26.5.5 Personnel.                                                                  means.

26.5.5.1 The remote supervising station shall have not less
than two qualified operators on duty at the remote supervising

2019 Edition       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                         SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                       72-159

26.5.9 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance.                                        26.6.3.2 Communications Integrity. Provision shall be made
                                                                                    to monitor the integrity of the transmission technology and its
26.5.9.1 Inspection, testing, and maintenance for remote                            communications path.
supervising stations shall be performed in accordance with
Chapter 14.                                                                          26.6.3.3 Single Communications Path. Unless prohibited by
26.5.9.2 Where required, inspection, testing, and mainte-                              the enforcing authority, governing laws, codes, or standards,
nance reports shall be submitted to the authority having juris-                        where a single communications path is used, the following
diction in a form acceptable to the authority having                                   requirements shall be met:
jurisdiction.                                                                          (1) The path shall be supervised at an interval of not more
26.6 Communications Methods for Supervising Station Alarm                                      than 60 minutes.
Systems.                                                                               (2) A failure of the path shall be annunciated at the supervis-
                                                                                               ing station within not more than 60 minutes.
                                                                                       (3) The failure to complete a signal transmission shall be
   26.6.1* Application.                                                                        annunciated at the protected premises in accordance
 26.6.1.1 Section 26.6 shall apply to the following:                                           with Section 10.15.

Y (1) Transmitter located at the protected premises                                    26.6.3.4 Multiple Communications Paths. If multiple trans-
L (2) Transmission channel between the protected premises                              mission paths are used, the following requirements shall be
                                                                                       met:
           and the supervising station or subsidiary station                           (1) Each path shall be supervised within not more than

N (3) If used, any subsidiary station and its communications                                   6 hours.
           channel                                                                     (2) The failure of any path of a multipath system shall be
   (4) Signal receiving, processing, display, and recording equip-
                                                                                               annunciated at the supervising station within not more
  O ment at the supervising station                                                            than 6 hours.
                                                                                       (3) Multiple communications paths shall be arranged so that
   26.6.1.2 The minimum signaling requirement shall be an                                      a single point of failure shall not cause more than a single
                                                                                               path to fail.
E alarm signal, trouble signal, and supervisory signal, where used.                    (4) The failure to complete a signal transmission shall be
S 26.6.2 General.                                                                              annunciated at the protected premises in accordance
U 26.6.2.1 Master Control Unit. If the protected premises                                      with Section 10.15.
                                                                                     26.6.3.5* Single Technology. A single technology shall be
   master control unit is neither integral to nor colocated with the                   permitted to be used to create the multiple paths provided that
                                                                                       the requirements of 26.6.3.4(1) through 26.6.3.4(4) are met.
L supervising station, the communications methods of                                   26.6.3.6 Spare System Unit Equipment. An inventory of spare
                                                                                       equipment shall be maintained at the supervising station such
   Section 26.6 shall be used to connect the protected premises to                     that any failed piece of equipment can be replaced and the
                                                                                       systems unit restored to full operation within 30 minutes of fail-
A either a subsidiary station, if used, or a supervising station for                   ure.
                                                                                       26.6.3.7 Loading Capacity of System Unit.
   central station service in accordance with Section 26.3, propri-                    26.6.3.7.1 The maximum number of independent fire alarm
                                                                                       systems connected to a single system unit shall be limited to
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U etary station in accordance with Section 26.4, or remote station   512.
                                                                                       26.6.3.7.2 If duplicate spare system units are maintained at
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} in accordance with Section 26.5.                                 the supervising station and switchover can be achieved in
                                                                                       30 seconds, then the system capacity shall be permitted to be
ID 26.6.2.2* Alternate Methods. Nothing in Chapter 26 shall be                         unlimited.
                                                                                       26.6.3.8 End-to-End Communication Time for Alarm. The
   interpreted as prohibiting the use of listed equipment using                        maximum duration between the initiation of an alarm signal at
                                                                                       the protected premises, transmission of the signal, and subse-
IV alternate communications methods that provide a level of relia-

   bility and supervision consistent with the requirements of
   Chapter 10 and the intended level of protection.

D 26.6.2.3* Equipment.
IN  26.6.2.3.1 Alarm system equipment and installations shall

   comply with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules
   and regulations, as applicable.

R 26.6.2.3.2 Equipment shall be installed in compliance with

   NFPA 70.

O26.6.2.3.3 The external antennas of all radio transmitting and
Freceiving equipment shall be protected in order to minimize

   the possibility of damage by static discharge or lightning.

26.6.2.4 Communications Technologies. The communica-                                quent display and recording of the alarm signal at the supervis-
tions methods used to transmit signals to supervising stations                      ing station shall not exceed 90 seconds.

shall meet the requirements of 26.6.3 for performance-based                         26.6.3.9 Unique Identifier. If a transmitter shares a transmis-
technologies, or 26.6.4 or 26.6.5 for prescriptive-based technol-                   sion or communications channel with other transmitters, it
ogies.                                                                              shall have a unique transmitter identifier.

26.6.3* Performance-Based Technologies.                                             26.6.3.10 Recording and Display Rate of Subsequent Alarms.

26.6.3.1 Conformance. Communications methods operating                              Recording and display of alarms at the supervising station shall
on principles different from specific methods covered by this                       be at a rate no slower than one complete signal every
chapter shall be permitted to be installed if they conform to                       10 seconds.

the performance requirements of this section and to all other
applicable requirements of this Code.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-160               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

26.6.3.11 Signal Error Detection and Correction.                                                   service is being provided by the supervising station alarm
26.6.3.11.1 Communication of alarm, supervisory, and trouble                                       system.
signals shall be in accordance with this section to prevent                                        (B) Special attention shall be required to ensure that this
degradation of the signal in transit, which in turn would result                                   connection is made only to a loop start telephone circuit and
in either of the following:                                                                        not to a ground start telephone circuit.

(1) Failure of the signal to be displayed and recorded at the  26.6.4.1.2 Signal Verification. All information exchanged
supervising station                                                                                between the DACT at the protected premises and the digital
(2) Incorrect corrupted signal displayed and recorded at the
       supervising station                                                                         alarm communicator receiver (DACR) at the supervising or
                                                                                                   subsidiary station shall comply with 26.6.4.1.2.1 and
                                                                                                   26.6.4.1.2.2.
 26.6.3.11.2 Reliability of the signal shall be achieved by any of
   the following:
   (1) Signal repetition -- multiple transmissions repeating the                                   N 26.6.4.1.2.1 Information exchanged shall be by digital code or
                                                                                                      some other approved means.
          same signal
                                                                                                   N 26.6.4.1.2.2 Signal verification shall be by signal repetition,
Y (2) Parity check -- a mathematically check sum algorithm of                                         digital parity check, or other approved means.
          a digital message that verifies correlation between trans-                                  26.6.4.1.3* Requirements for DACTs.
 L mitted and received message                                                                        (A) A DACT shall be configured so that, when it is required to
   (3) An equivalent means to 26.6.3.11.1(1) or 26.6.3.11.1(2)                                        transmit a signal to the supervising station, it shall seize the
                                                                                                      telephone line (going off-hook) at the protected premises and
 N that provides a certainty of 99.99 percent that the                                                disconnect an outgoing or incoming telephone call and
                                                                                                      prevent use of the telephone line for outgoing telephone calls
          received message is identical to the transmitted message                                    until signal transmission has been completed. A DACT shall
                                                                                                      not be connected to a party line telephone facility.
O 26.6.3.12* Sharing Communications Equipment On-Premises.                                            (B) A DACT shall have the means to satisfactorily obtain a dial
                                                                                                      tone, dial the number(s) of the DACR, obtain verification that
   If the fire alarm transmitter is sharing on-premises communica-                                    the DACR is able to receive signals, transmit the signal, and
                                                                                                      receive acknowledgment that the DACR has accepted that
E tions equipment, the shared equipment shall be listed as                                            signal. In no event shall the time from going off-hook to on-
                                                                                                      hook exceed 90 seconds per attempt.
   communications or information technology equipment.                                                (C)* A DACT shall have means to reset and retry if the first
                                                                                                      attempt to complete a signal transmission sequence is unsuc-
S 26.6.3.13 Secondary Power.                                                                          cessful. A failure to complete connection shall not prevent
U 26.6.3.13.1* Premises Equipment. The secondary power                                                subsequent attempts to transmit an alarm where such alarm is
                                                                                                      generated from any other initiating device circuit or signaling
   capacity for all transmitters and shared equipment necessary                                       line circuit, or both. Additional attempts shall be made until
                                                                                                      the signal transmission sequence has been completed, up to a
L for the transmission of alarm, supervisory, trouble, and other                                      minimum of 5 and a maximum of 10 attempts.
                                                                                                      (D) If the maximum number of attempts to complete the
   signals located at the protected premises shall be a minimum                                       sequence is reached, an indication of the failure shall be made
                                                                                                      at the premises.
A of 24 hours or as permitted by 10.6.7.3.1(2), 26.6.3.13.1.1, or                                     26.6.4.1.4 Transmission Channels.

   26.6.3.13.1.2.                                                                                   (A) A system employing a DACT shall employ a single tele-
                                                                                                      phone line (number) and one of the following transmission
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 26.6.3.13.1.1* Secondary power capacity for shared equip-   means:
ID ment shall be permitted to have a capacity of 8 hours where                                        (1) One-way private radio alarm system

   acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction and where a risk
   analysis is performed to ensure acceptable availability is provi-

IV ded.

N 26.6.3.13.1.2* Secondary power capacity for shared and prem-

D ises equipment used in additional communications paths shall

   not be required where the first communications path meets the

IN performance requirements of 26.6.3.3.

   26.6.3.13.2 Supervising Station. Secondary power capacity for
   all equipment necessary for reception of alarm, supervisory,

R trouble, and other signals located at the supervising station

   shall comply with 10.6.7.

O 26.6.3.14 Unique Flaws Not Covered by This Code. If a
Fcommunications technology has a unique flaw that could result
in the failure to communicate a signal, the implementation of                                      (2) Two-way RF multiplex system
                                                                                                   (3) Transmission means complying with 26.6.3
that technology for alarm signaling shall compensate for that                                      (4) A second telephone line (number), where all of the
flaw so as to eliminate the risk of missing an alarm signal.
26.6.4 Digital Alarm Communicator Systems.                                                                following are met:
                                                                                                          (a) Access to one of the technologies in (1), (2), or (3)
26.6.4.1 Digital Alarm Communicator Transmitter (DACT).                                            is not available at the protected premises.
                                                                                                   (b) The authority having jurisdiction approves the
26.6.4.1.1* Managed Facilities-Based Voice Network. A DACT                                                arrangement.
shall be connected to a managed facilities-based voice network
upstream of any private telephone system at the protected                                          (c) The DACT is programmed to call a second DACR
premises.                                                                                                 line (number) when the signal transmission
                                                                                                          sequence to the first called line (number) is unsuc-
                                                                                                   cessful.
(A) The connections to a managed facilities-based voice
network shall be under the control of the subscriber for whom

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                       SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                                                72-161

(d) The DACT is capable of selecting the operable N (B) Spare DACRs shall be online or able to be switched into
means of transmission in the event of failure of the                         the place of a failed unit within 30 seconds after detection of
other means.                                                                 failure.
(e) Each telephone line is tested in accordance with
       26.6.4.1.4(B) or at alternating 6-hour intervals.                     (C) One spare DACR shall be permitted to serve as a backup
                                                                             for up to five DACRs in use.
(B) The following requirements shall apply to all combina-
tions listed in 26.6.4.1.4(A):                                               (D) The number of incoming telephone lines to a DACR shall
                                                                             be limited to eight lines, unless the signal-receiving, processing,
(1) The means for supervising each channel shall be in a                     display, and recording equipment at the supervising or subsid-
manner approved for the method of transmission
employed.                                                                    iary station is duplicated and a switchover is able to be accom-
                                                                             plished in less than 30 seconds with no loss of signal during this
(2) If a signal has not been processed over the subject chan-                period, in which case the number of incoming lines to the unit
           nel in the previous 6 hours, a test signal shall be
           processed.                                                           shall be permitted to be unlimited.
   (3) The failure of either channel shall send a trouble signal                26.6.4.2.2 Transmission Channels.
                                                                              (A)* The DACR equipment at the supervising or subsidiary
  Y on the other channel within 4 minutes.                                      station shall be connected to a minimum of two separate
                                                                                incoming telephone lines (numbers).
   (4) When one transmission channel has failed, all status                  N (B) The lines (numbers) shall have the following characteris-
                                                                                tics:
  L change signals shall be sent over the other channel.                        (1) If the lines (numbers) are in a single hunt group, they

   (5) The primary channel shall be capable of delivering an                            shall be individually accessible; otherwise, separate hunt
                                                                                        groups shall be required.
  N indication to the DACT that the message has been                            (2) The lines (numbers) shall be used for no other purpose
                                                                                        than receiving signals from a DACT.
           received by the supervising station.                                 (3) The lines (numbers) shall be unlisted.
                                                                                (C) The failure of any telephone line (number) connected to
O (6)* Unless the primary channel is known to have failed, the                  a DACR due to loss of line voltage shall be annunciated visually
           first attempt to send a status change signal shall use the           and audibly in the supervising station.
           primary channel.                                                   (D)* The loading capacity for a hunt group shall be capable
                                                                                of demonstrating a 90 percent probability of immediately
E (7) Simultaneous transmission over both channels shall be                     answering an incoming call or be in accordance with Table
  S permitted.                                                                  26.6.4.2.2(D) and the following:
                                                                                (1) Table 26.6.4.2.2(D) shall be based on an average distribu-
   (8) Failure of telephone lines (numbers) shall be annunci-                           tion of calls and an average connected time of 30 seconds
                                                                                        for a message.
  U ated locally.                                                               (2) The loading figures in Table 26.6.4.2.2(D) shall presume
                                                                                        that the lines are in a hunt group (i.e., DACT is able to
 26.6.4.1.5 DACT Transmission Means. The following require-                             access any line not in use).
                                                                                (3) A single-line DACR shall not be allowed for any of the
L ments shall apply to all DACTs:                                                       configurations shown in Table 26.6.4.2.2(D).
                                                                                (E) Each supervised burglar alarm (open/close) or each
   (1) A DACT shall be connected to two separate means of                       suppressed guard's tour transmitter shall reduce the allowable
                                                                                DACTs as follows:
  A transmission at the protected premises so that a single                     (1) Up to a four-line hunt group, by 10
                                                                                (2) Up to a five-line hunt group, by 7
           point of failure on one means of transmission shall not              (3) Up to a six-line hunt group, by 6

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U affect the second means of transmission.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (2) The DACT shall be capable of selecting the operable

  ID means of transmission in the event of failure of the other

           means.

IV (3) The primary means of transmission shall be a telephone
           line (number) connected to a managed facilities-based
           voice network.

D (4)* The first transmission attempt shall utilize the primary
           means of transmission.

IN (5) Each DACT shall be programmed to call a second
           receiver when the signal transmission sequence to the
           first called line (number) is unsuccessful.

R (6) Each transmission means shall automatically initiate and
           complete a test signal transmission sequence to its associ-
           ated receiver at least once every 6 hours.

O(7) A successful signal transmission sequence of any other
F type, within the same 6-hour period, shall fulfill the
requirement to verify the integrity of the reporting                         (4) Up to a seven-line hunt group, by 5
system, provided that signal processing is automated so                      (5) Up to an eight-line hunt group, by 4
       that 6-hour delinquencies are individually acknowledged
       by supervising station personnel.                                     (F) Each guard's tour transmitter shall reduce the allowable
(8)* If a DACT is programmed to call a telephone line                        DACTs as follows:

(number) that is call forwarded to the line (number) of                      (1) Up to a four-line hunt group, by 30
the DACR, a means shall be implemented to verify the                         (2) Up to a five-line hunt group, by 21
integrity of the call forwarding feature every 4 hours.                      (3) Up to a six-line hunt group, by 18
                                                                             (4) Up to a seven-line hunt group, by 15
26.6.4.2 Digital Alarm Communicator Receiver (DACR).                         (5) Up to an eight-line hunt group, by 12

26.6.4.2.1 Equipment.                                                        (G) A signal shall be received on each individual incoming

 (A) Spare DACRs shall be provided in the supervising or                     DACR line at least once every 6 hours.
   subsidiary station.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-162                                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Table 26.6.4.2.2(D) Loading Capacities for Hunt Groups                           (4) Indication of automatic switchover
                                                                                 (5) Independent deactivation of either RF transmitter
                                                                                 controlled from the supervising station
System Loading at      Number of Lines in Hunt Group
the Supervising
        Station    1     2             3         4      5­8                      26.6.5.1.3 Transmission Channel.

With DACR lines processed in parallel                                            (A) The RF multiplex transmission channel shall terminate in
                                                                                 an RF transmitter/receiver at the protected premises and in a
Number of          NA 5,000 10,000 20,000 20,000                                 system unit at the supervising or subsidiary station.
initiating
  circuits                                                                        (B) Operation of the transmission channel shall conform to
Number of          NA    500 1,500 3,000                3,000                       the requirements of this Code whether channels are private
                                                                                    facilities, such as microwave, or leased facilities furnished by a
  DACTs                                                 6,000                       communications utility company.
                                                        1,000
Y Number of                                                                      N (C) If private signal transmission facilities are used, the equip-
With DACR lines processed serially (put on hold, then                               ment necessary to transmit signals shall also comply with
answered one at a time)                                                             requirements for duplicate equipment or replacement of criti-
L circuits                                                                          cal components, as described in 26.6.6.3.
initiating         NA 3,000 5,000 6,000                                             26.6.5.1.4* Categories. Two-way RF multiplex systems shall be
                                                                                    divided into Type 4 or Type 5 classifications based on their abil-
N DACTs            NA                                                               ity to perform under adverse conditions.
Number of                300           800 1,000                                    (A) A Type 4 system shall have two or more control sites
O (H) The failure to receive a test signal from the protected                       configured as follows:
NA: Not allowed.E premises shall be treated as a trouble signal.                    (1) Each site shall have an RF receiver interconnected to the
S 26.6.5 Radio Systems.                                                                     supervising or subsidiary station by a separate channel.
U 26.6.5.1 Two-Way Radio Frequency (RF) Multiplex Systems.                          (2) The RF transmitter/receiver located at the protected
                                                                                            premises shall be within transmission range of at least two
26.6.5.1.1 Maximum Operating Time. The maximum end-to-                                      RF receiving sites.
                                                                                    (3) The system shall contain two RF transmitters that are one
L end operating time parameters allowed for a two-way RF multi-                             of the following:
                                                                                            (a) Located at one site with the capability of interrogat-
plex system shall be as follows:                                                                   ing all of the RF transmitters/receivers on the
                                                                                                   premises
A (1) The maximum allowable time lapse from the initiation of                               (b) Dispersed with all of the RF transmitters/receivers
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U a single alarm signal until it is recorded at the supervising                  on the premises having the capability to be interro-
                                                                                                   gated by two different RF transmitters
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} station shall not exceed 90 seconds. When any number of      (4) Each RF transmitter shall maintain a status that allows
                                                                                            immediate use at all times. Facilities shall be provided in
 ID subsequent alarm signals occur at any rate, they shall be                               the supervising or subsidiary station to operate any off-
                                                                                            line RF transmitter at least once every 8 hours.
       recorded at a rate no slower than one every additional                       (5) Any failure of one of the RF receivers shall in no way
       10 seconds.                                                                          interfere with the operation of the system from the other
                                                                                            RF receiver. Failure of any receiver shall be annunciated
IV (2) The maximum allowable time lapse from the occurrence                                 at the supervising station.
       of an adverse condition in any transmission channel until                    (6) A physically separate channel shall be required between
       recording of the adverse condition is started shall not                              each RF transmitter or RF receiver site, or both, and the
 D exceed 200 seconds for Type 4 and Type 5 systems. The                                    system unit.
       requirements of 26.6.5.1.4 shall apply.                                      (B) A Type 5 system shall have a single control site configured
                                                                                    as follows:
IN (3) In addition to the maximum operating time allowed for
       alarm signals, the requirements of one of the following
       shall be met:
 R (a) A system unit that has more than 500 initiating
              device circuits shall be able to record not less than
  O50 simultaneous status changes within 90 seconds.
       (b) A system unit that has fewer than 500 initiating
F device circuits shall be able to record not less than
              10 percent of the total number of simultaneous                     (1) A minimum of one RF receiving site
                                                                                 (2) A minimum of one RF transmitting site
              status changes within 90 seconds.

26.6.5.1.2 Supervisory and Control Functions. Facilities shall                   26.6.5.1.5 Loading Capacities.
be provided at the supervising station for the following supervi-                (A) The loading capacities of two-way RF multiplex systems
sory and control functions of the supervising or subsidiary                      shall be based on the overall reliability of the signal receiving,
station and the repeater station radio transmitting and receiv-                  processing, display, and recording equipment at the supervis-
ing equipment, which shall be accomplished via a supervised                      ing or subsidiary station and the capability to transmit signals
circuit where the radio equipment is remotely located from the                   during adverse conditions of the transmission channels.
system unit:                                                                     (B) Allowable loading capacities shall comply with Table
(1) RF transmitter in use (radiating)                                            26.6.5.1.5(B).
(2) Failure of ac power supplying the radio equipment
(3) RF receiver malfunction

2019 Edition             Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                          SUPERVISING STATION ALARM SYSTEMS                                               72-163

Table 26.6.5.1.5(B) Loading Capacities for Two-Way RF              or any combination thereof that occurred at any of the affected
Multiplex Systems                                                  premises during the service interruption also shall be recorded.

                                          System Type              26.6.5.2* One-Way Private Radio Alarm Systems.

Trunks                                    Type 4 Type 5            26.6.5.2.1 Independent Receivers.

Maximum number of alarm service           5,120          1,280     (A) The requirements of 26.6.5.2 for a radio alarm repeater
  initiating device circuits per primary    512            128     station receiver (RARSR) shall be satisfied if the signals from
  trunk facility                                                   each radio alarm transmitter (RAT) are received and super-
                                                                   vised, in accordance with Chapter 26, by at least two independ-
Maximum number of leg facilities for                               ently powered, independently operating, and separately
  alarm service per primary trunk                                  located RARSRs or radio alarm supervising station receivers
  facility
Maximum number of leg facilities for

  all types of alarm service per
  secondary trunk facility*

Y Maximum number of all types of
L initiating device circuits per primary

  trunk facility in any combination

N Maximum number of leg facilities for
  types of alarm service per primary
O trunk facility in any combination*
                                             128           128        (RASSRs), or by one of each.
                                          10,240         2,560        (B) At least two separate paths shall be provided from a RAT
                                                                      to the ultimate RASSR.
                                           1,024           256        (C) Only one path to the RASSR shall be required to be
                                                                      utilized in the event alarms can be transmitted from a RAT to
System Units at the Supervising Station   10,240         10,240       the RASSR and the RAT has the ability to receive a positive
                                             512            512       acknowledgment that the RASSR has received the signal.
E Maximum number of all types of                                      26.6.5.2.2* Maximum Operating Time. The end-to-end oper-
  initiating device circuits per system    5,120          5,120       ating time parameters allowed for a one-way radio alarm system
S unit*                                                               shall be as follows:
Maximum number of protected                                           (1) There shall be a 90 percent probability that the time

U buildings and premises per system                                          between the initiation of a single alarm signal until it is
                                                                             recorded at the supervising station will not exceed
  unit                                                                       90 seconds.
                                                                      (2) There shall be a 99 percent probability that the time
L Maximum number of alarm service                                            between the initiation of a single alarm signal until it is
A initiating device circuits per system                                      recorded at the supervising station will not exceed
  Systems Emitting from Subsidiary        --             --                  180 seconds.
                                                                      (3) There shall be a 99.999 percent probability that the time
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Station                                                  between the initiation of a single alarm signal until it is
                                                                             recorded at the supervising station will not exceed
                                                                             7.5 minutes (450 seconds), at which time the RAT shall
                                                                             cease transmitting. When any number of subsequent
                                                                             alarm signals occurs at any rate, they shall be recorded at
                                                                             an average rate no slower than one every additional
                                                                             10 seconds.
                                                                      (4) In addition to the maximum operating time allowed for
                                                                             alarm signals, the system shall be able to record not less
                                                                             than 12 simultaneous status changes within 90 seconds at
                                                                             the supervising station.
                                                                      (5) The system shall be supervised to ensure that at least two
                                                                             independent RARSRs or one RARSR and one independ-
                                                                             ent RASSR are receiving signals for each RAT during
                                                                             each 24-hour period.
                                                                      26.6.5.2.3 Supervision.
                                                                   N 26.6.5.2.3.1 Equipment shall be provided at the supervising
                                                                      station for the supervisory and control functions of the super-
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} *Includes every initiating device circuit (e.g., waterflow, alarm,

ID supervisory, guard, burglary, hold-up).

Same as system units at the supervising station.
IV (C) The capacity of a system unit shall be permitted to be
D unlimited if the signal-receiving, processing, display, and

   recording equipment are duplicated at the supervising station

IN and a switchover is able to be accomplished in not more than

   30 seconds, with no loss of signals during this period.
   26.6.5.1.6 Adverse Conditions.

R  (A) The occurrence of an adverse condition on the transmis-
   sion channel between a protected premises and the supervising
Ostation that prevents the transmission of any status change
   signal shall be automatically indicated and recorded at the

Fsupervising station.

N (B) The indication and recording of the adverse condition        vising or subsidiary station and for the repeater station radio
                                                                   transmitting and receiving equipment.
shall identify the affected portions of the system so that the
supervising station operator will be able to determine the loca-
tion of the adverse condition by trunk or leg facility, or both.   N 26.6.5.2.3.2 A supervised circuit shall be provided where the
                                                                      radio equipment is remotely located from the system unit and
                                                                   the conditions of 26.6.5.2.3.2(A) through 26.6.5.2.3.2(C) are
 (C) For two-way RF multiplex systems that are part of a central   met.
station alarm system, restoration of service to the affected
portions of the system shall be automatically recorded.
                                                                   (A) The following conditions shall be supervised at the super-
                                                                   vising station:
N (D) When service is restoredto a two-way RF multiplex system,
the first status change of any initiating device circuit, any
initiating device directly connected to a signaling line circuit,  (1) Failure of ac power supplying the radio equipment
                                                                   (2) Malfunction of RF receiver
                                                                   (3) Indication of automatic switchover, if applicable

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-164                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(B) Interconnections between elements of transmitting equip-         (A) Allowable loading capacities shall be in accordance with
ment, including any antennas, shall be supervised either to          Table 26.6.5.2.6.2(A), except as modified by the following:
  cause an indication of failure at the protected premises or to
  transmit a trouble signal to the supervising station.              (1) Each guard's tour transmitter shall reduce the allowable
· (C) Personnel shall be dispatched to arrive within 12 hours to            RATs by 15.

                                                                     (2) Each supervised burglar alarm (open/close) or each
                                                                     suppressed guard's tour transmitter shall reduce the
initiate maintenance after detection of primary power failure.       allowable RATs by 5.

26.6.5.2.4 Transmission Channels. Transmission channels              (B) If the signal-receiving, processing, display, and recording
shall comply with 26.6.5.2.4(A) through 26.6.5.2.4(F).
                                                                     equipment is duplicated at the supervising station and a switch-
(A) The one-way RF transmission channel shall originate with         over is able to be accomplished in not more than 30 seconds,
a RAT at the protected premises and shall terminate at the RF
                                                                     with no loss of signals during this period, the capacity of a
receiving system of an RARSR or RASSR capable of receiving              system unit shall be permitted to be unlimited.
transmissions from such transmitting devices.                           26.6.5.2.7 Adverse Conditions. The system shall be supervised
(B) A receiving network transmission channel shall terminate            to ensure that at least two independent radio alarm repeater
                                                                        station receivers (RARSRs) are receiving signals for each radio
Y at an RARSR at one end and with either another RARSR or an            alarm transmitter (RAT) during each 24-hour period.
L RASSR at the other end.                                               (A) The occurrence of a failure to receive a signal by either
                                                                        RARSR shall be automatically indicated and recorded at the
(C) Operation of receiving network transmission channels                supervising station.
                                                                        (B) The indication shall identify which RARSR failed to
N shall conform to the requirements of this Code whether chan-          receive such supervisory signals.
                                                                        (C) Received test signals shall not be required to be indicated
nels are private facilities, such as microwave, or leased facilities    at the supervising station.
                                                                     N 26.6.5.2.8 Wireless Mesh Networks (WMN). A wireless mesh
O furnished by a communications utility company.                        network utilizing listed components satisfies the requirements
                                                                        of 26.6.5.2.
(D) If private signal transmission facilities are used, the equip-

E ment necessary to transmit signals shall also comply with

requirements for duplicate equipment or replacement of criti-

S cal components as described in 26.6.6.3.
U (E) The system shall provide information that indicates the

quality of the received signal for each RARSR supervising each

L RAT in accordance with 26.6.5.2 and shall provide information

at the supervising station when such signal quality falls below

A the minimum signal quality levels set forth in 26.6.5.2.

(F) Each RAT shall be installed in such a manner so as to

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U provide a signal quality over at least two independent one-way

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} RF transmission channels, of the minimum quality level speci-

ID fied, that satisfies the performance requirements in 26.6.2.3

and 26.6.6.

IV 26.6.5.2.5 System Categories. One-way radio alarm systems

shall be divided into two categories on the basis of the follow-

D ing number of RASSRs present in the system:

(1) A Type 6 system shall have one RASSR and at least two

 IN RARSRs.

(2) A Type 7 system shall have more than one RASSR and at
       least two RARSRs.

(3) In a Type 7 system, when more than one RARSR is out of

 R service and, as a result, any RATs are no longer being

       supervised, the affected supervising station shall be noti-

 Ofied.
F(4) In a Type 6 system, when any RARSR is out of service, a
                                                                     Table 26.6.5.2.6.2(A) Loading Capacities of One-Way Radio
                                                                     Alarm Systems

                                                                      Radio Alarm Repeater Station Receiver   System Type
                                                                                          (RARSR)
                                                                                                              Type 6 Type 7
                                                                     Maximum number of fire alarm service
                                                                       initiating device circuits per RARSR   5,120   5,120

                                                                     Maximum number of RATs for fire             512     512
                                                                     Maximum number of all types of           10,240  10,240

                                                                       initiating device circuits per RARSR   1,024   1,024
                                                                       in any combination*
trouble signal shall be annunciated at the supervising               Maximum number of RATs for all types
                                                                       of fire alarm service per RARSR in
                                                                     any combination*
station.
                                                                     System Units at the Supervising Station
26.6.5.2.6 Loading Capacities.                                       Maximum number of all types of           10,240 10,240

N 26.6.5.2.6.1 The loading capacities of one-way radio alarm           initiating device circuits per system    512     512
   systems shall be based on the overall reliability of the signal-    unit*                                  5,120   5,120
   receiving, processing, display, and recording equipment at the    Maximum number of fire-protected
   supervising or subsidiary station and the capability to transmit    buildings and premises per system
   signals during adverse conditions of the transmission channels.     unit
                                                                     Maximum number of fire alarm service
N 26.6.5.2.6.2 Loading capacities shall comply with                    initiating device circuits per system
   26.6.5.2.6.2(A) and 26.6.5.2.6.2(B).                                unit

                                                                     *Includes every initiating device circuit (e.g., waterflow, fire alarm,
                                                                     supervisory, guard, burglary, hold-up).

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

PUBLIC EMERGENCY ALARM REPORTING SYSTEMS                                                                         72-165

   26.6.6 Display and Recording Requirements for All Transmis-                 Chapter 27 Public Emergency Alarm Reporting Systems
   sion Technologies.
 26.6.6.1* Any status changes, including the initiation or resto-         27.1 Application.
   ration to normal of a trouble condition, that occur in an initiat-   27.1.1 The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the proper
   ing device or in any interconnecting circuits or equipment,
   including the local protected premises controls from the loca-         configuration, performance, installation, and operation of
   tion of the initiating device(s) to the supervising station, shall     public emergency alarm reporting systems and auxiliary alarm
   be presented in a form to expedite prompt operator interpreta-         systems.
   tion.                                                               N 27.1.1.1 Public emergency alarm reporting systems shall
N 26.6.6.2 Status change signals shall provide the following              consist of alarm boxes and alarm processing equipment that
   information:                                                           communicate on a wired or wireless network(s), one-way or
                                                                          two-way, meeting the requirements of this chapter.

   (1) Identification of the type of signal to show whether it is                  N 27.1.1.2 Public emergency alarm reporting systems shall
          an alarm, supervisory, delinquency, or trouble signal                       include systems that use a communications infrastructure that
                                                                                      is publicly owned, operated, and controlled or where public
   (2) Identification of the signal to differentiate between an                       emergency alarm reporting systems and equipment are used in
                                                                                      other applications.
  Y initiation of an alarm, a supervisory, a delinquency, or a                        27.1.2 The installation and use of public emergency alarm
  L trouble signal and a clearing from one or more of these                           reporting systems and auxiliary alarm systems shall comply with
                                                                                      the requirements of this chapter.
          conditions                                                                  27.1.3 The requirements of this chapter shall apply to systems
                                                                                      and equipment for the transmission and reception of alarm
N (3) Identification of the site of origin of each status change                      and other emergency signals, including those from auxiliary
          signal                                                                      alarm systems, connected to the public emergency alarm
                                                                                      reporting system.
O (4)* Identification of specific types of signals that dictate a                     27.1.4 The requirements of Chapters 10 and 14 shall apply
          different response                                                          unless otherwise noted in this chapter.
                                                                                      27.1.5 Only those requirements from Chapter 7 that are
E 26.6.6.3* If duplicate equipment for signal receiving, process-                     required by Chapter 14 shall apply.

   ing, display, and recording is not provided for supervising                     · 27.1.6 The application of public emergency alarm reporting
                                                                                      systems and auxiliary alarm systems to provide defined report-
S stations other than proprietary station systems, the installed                      ing functions from or within private premises shall be permit-
                                                                                      ted where approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
   equipment shall be designed so that any critical assembly is                       27.1.7* Where a protected premises fire alarm system or other
                                                                                      emergency system at the protected premises has its signals sent
U able to be replaced from on-premises spares.                                        to a communications center via public emergency alarm report-
                                                                                      ing system, the protected premises system shall become an
N 26.6.6.4* The system shall be able to be restored to service                        auxiliary alarm system.
                                                                                      27.2 General.
L within 30 minutes.                                                                  27.2.1* Public emergency alarm reporting systems shall be
A 26.6.6.5* Any method of recording and display or indication                         designed, installed, operated, and maintained in accordance
                                                                                      with this chapter to provide reliable transmission and receipt of
   of change of status signals shall be permitted, provided that the                  alarms in a manner acceptable to the authority having jurisdic-
                                                                                      tion.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U status signals are not test signals required by 26.6.4.1.5 at a   27.2.2 A public emergency alarm reporting system, as descri-
                                                                                      bed herein, shall be permitted to be used for the transmission
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} DACR and all of the following conditions are met:               of other signals or calls of a public emergency nature, provided
                                                                                      that such transmission does not interfere with the transmission
ID (1) Each change of status signal requiring action to be taken
          by the operator shall result in an audible signal and not
  IV less than two independent methods of identifying the
          type, condition, and location of the status change.
   (2) Each change of status signal shall be automatically recor-

  D ded. The record shall provide the type of signal, condi-

          tion, and location, as required by 26.6.6.1, in addition to

  IN the time and date the signal was received.

   (3) Failure of an operator to acknowledge or act upon a
          change of status signal shall not prevent subsequent
          alarm signals from being received, indicated or displayed,

  R and recorded.

   (4) Change of status signals requiring action to be taken by

 Othe operator shall be displayed or indicated in a manner
F that clearly differentiates them from those that have been

          acted upon and acknowledged.
   (5) Each incoming signal to a DACR shall cause an audible

          signal that persists until manually acknowledged.

26.6.7 Testing and Maintenance Requirements for All Trans-                         and receipt of fire alarms.

mission Technologies. Testing and maintenance of communi-                          27.2.3* All devices shall be designed to function satisfactorily
cations methods shall be in accordance with the requirements                       under the climatic and environmental conditions to which they
of Chapter 14.                                                                     could be exposed.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-166                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

27.2.3.1 All devices shall be identified as suitable for the loca-                  27.4.2.1 All wired networks or public cable plants shall meet
tion and conditions for which they are installed.                                   the requirements of Section 27.7.

27.2.4 All circuits, paths, and equipment necessary for the                         27.4.2.1.1 Fiber-optic cabling shall be considered an accepta-
receipt of signals from a protected premises shall be monitored                     ble transmission medium, provided that the cabling and instal-
for integrity.                                                                      lation comply with the requirements of Section 27.7 and the
                                                                                    conversion equipment used to interface to the fiber-optic
27.3 Management and Maintenance.                                                    signal complies with all applicable requirements of Chapter 27.

27.3.1 All systems shall be under the control of a designated                       27.4.2.2 Alarm processing equipment at the communications
jurisdictional employee.                                                            center shall meet the requirements of 27.5.2 and 27.5.4.

27.3.2 Maintenance by an organization or person other than                          27.4.2.3 Alarm processing equipment at a remote communica-
from the jurisdiction or an employee of the jurisdiction shall                      tions center shall meet the requirements of 27.4.2.2 and 27.5.3.
be by written contract, guaranteeing performance acceptable                         27.4.2.4 Alarm boxes shall meet one of the following require-
to the authority having jurisdiction.                                               ments:
                                                                                    (1) Publicly accessible boxes shall meet the requirements of
Y 27.3.3 Where maintenance is provided by an organization or
                                                                                           27.6.1 through 27.6.2 and 27.6.5.
person(s) other than the jurisdiction or its employees,                             (2) Auxiliary boxes shall meet the requirements of 27.6.1,

L complete written records of the installation, maintenance, test,                         27.6.3, and 27.6.5.
                                                                                    (3) Master boxes shall meet the requirements of 27.6.1
and extension of the system shall be forwarded to the designa-
                                                                                           through 27.6.3 and 27.6.5.
N ted employee in a time period and manner approved by the                          27.4.3 Wireless Network(s). The terms wireless network and
                                                                                    radio system shall be considered the same and interchangeable
authority having jurisdiction.                                                      throughout this chapter.
                                                                                    27.4.3.1 All wireless networks shall meet the requirements of
O 27.3.4 All equipment shall be installed in locations accessible                   27.4.3.2 through 27.4.3.5.
                                                                                    27.4.3.2 In addition to the requirements of this Code, all wire-
to the authority having jurisdiction for the purpose of mainte-                     less equipment shall be designed and operated in compliance
                                                                                    with all applicable rules and regulations of the Federal
E nance and inspection.                                                             Communications Commission (FCC) or, where required, the
S 27.3.5 Records of wired public emergency alarm reporting                          National Telecommunications and Information Administration
                                                                                    (NTIA).
system circuits shall include all of the following:                                 27.4.3.3* Unlicensed radio frequencies shall not be permit-
                                                                                    ted.
U (1) Outline plans showing terminals and box sequence                              27.4.3.4 Fire alarm signals, other emergency alarm signals,
                                                                                    and monitoring for integrity signals shall be permitted on the
(2) Diagrams of applicable office wiring                                            same radio frequency, dedicated for that purpose.
                                                                                    27.4.3.5 The wireless network capacity for the number of
L (3) List of materials used, including trade name, manufac-                        alarm boxes permitted on a single radio frequency shall comply
       turer, and year of purchase or installation                                  with one of the following:
                                                                                    (1) For networks that use one-way transmission in which the
A 27.3.6 Public emergency alarm reporting systems as defined in
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U this chapter shall, in their entirety, be subject to a complete        individual alarm box automatically initiates the required
                                                                                           message (see 27.5.5.3.3) using circuitry integral to the
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} operational acceptance test upon completion of system installa-       alarm box, not more than 500 alarm boxes are permitted
                                                                                           on a single radio frequency.
ID tion.                                                                            (2) For networks that use a two-way concept in which inter-
                                                                                           rogation signals (see 27.5.5.3.3) are transmitted to the
27.3.6.1 The test(s) required by 27.3.6 shall be made in

IV accordance with the requirements of the authority having juris-

diction; however, in no case shall the operational functions
tested be less than those stipulated in Chapter 14.

D 27.3.6.2 Operational acceptance tests shall be performed on
IN any alarm-reporting devices, as covered in this chapter, that are

installed or modified subsequent to the test required by 27.3.6.
27.3.7 Personnel Qualification. Personnel shall be qualified

R and experienced in accordance with the requirements of

10.5.6.

O 27.4 Communications Methods.
F27.4.1 Application.
27.4.1.1 A public emergency alarm reporting system shall                            individual alarm boxes from the communications center
include wired or wireless network(s), for one-way signaling or                      on the same radio frequency used for receipt of alarms,
two-way command and control communications between alarm                            not more than 250 alarm boxes are permitted on a single
boxes, alarm processing equipment, and the communications                           radio frequency.
center.                                                                             (3) For networks that use a two-way concept where interroga-
                                                                                    tion signals are transmitted on a radio frequency that
27.4.1.2 A public emergency alarm reporting system shall be                         differs from that used for receipt of alarms, not more
permitted to be used with emergency communications systems                          than 500 alarm boxes are permitted on a single radio
covered under Chapter 24.                                                           frequency.

27.4.2 Wired Network(s). The terms wired network and public                         27.4.3.6 Alarm processing equipment at the communications
cable plant shall be considered the same and interchangeable                        center shall meet the requirements of 27.5.2 and 27.5.5.
throughout this chapter.

2019 Edition    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                   PUBLIC EMERGENCY ALARM REPORTING SYSTEMS                                                                  72-167

27.4.3.7 Alarm processing equipment at a remote communica-  27.5.2.2.5 Permanent visual records shall comply with
tions center shall meet the requirements of 27.4.3.6 and 27.5.3.                     27.5.2.2.5.1 and 27.5.2.2.5.2.

27.4.3.8 Alarm boxes shall meet one of the following require- N 27.5.2.2.5.1 A permanent visual record and an audible signal
ments:                                                                               shall be required to indicate the receipt of an alarm.

(1) Publicly accessible boxes shall meet the requirements of N 27.5.2.2.5.2 The permanent record shall indicate the exact
27.6.1 through 27.6.2 and 27.6.6.                                                    location from which the alarm is being transmitted.
(2) Auxiliary boxes shall meet the requirements of 27.6.1,
27.6.3, and 27.6.6.                                                                  27.5.2.2.6 The audible signal device shall be permitted to be
                                                                                     common to two or more box circuits and arranged so that the
(3) Master boxes shall meet the requirements of 27.6.1            emergency alarm operator is able to manually silence the signal
       through 27.6.3 and 27.6.6.                                 temporarily by a self-restoring switch.
27.5 Alarm Processing Equipment. The alarm processing
   equipment required to receive and control the public emer-                        27.5.2.2.7 Facilities shall be provided with a device that auto-
   gency alarm reporting system shall be installed in the commu-                     matically records the date and time of receipt of each alarm.
   nications center or remote communications center used by                          27.5.2.3 System Integrity.
                                                                                     27.5.2.3.1 Wired circuits upon which transmission and receipt
Y emergency response agencies as defined in NFPA 1221.                               of alarms depend shall be constantly monitored for integrity to
L 27.5.1 General. The requirements of 27.5.2 shall apply to all                      provide prompt warning of conditions adversely affecting relia-
                                                                                     bility.
   processing equipment, wired or wireless, for a public emer-                       27.5.2.3.2 The power supplied to all required circuits and
                                                                                     devices of the system shall be constantly monitored for integ-
N gency alarm reporting network.                                                     rity.
O 27.5.2 Alarm Processing Equipment at Communications                                27.5.2.4 Trouble Signals.
                                                                                     27.5.2.4.1 Trouble signals shall be indicated where there is a
   Center.                                                                           trained and competent person on duty at all times.
                                                                                     27.5.2.4.2 Trouble signals shall be distinct from alarm signals
E 27.5.2.1 Type A and Type B Systems.                                                and shall be indicated by a visual and audible signal.
S 27.5.2.1.1 Alarm systems shall be Type A or Type B.                                27.5.2.4.3 The audible signal shall be permitted to be
                                                                                     common to more than one circuit that is monitored for integ-
   27.5.2.1.2 A Type A system shall be provided where the                            rity.
                                                                                     27.5.2.4.4 A switch for silencing the audible trouble signal
U number of all alarms required to be retransmitted exceeds                          shall be permitted, provided that the visual signal remains
                                                                                     operating until the silencing switch is restored to its normal
   2500 per year.                                                                    position.
                                                                                     27.5.2.4.5 The audible signal shall be responsive to faults on
L 27.5.2.1.3 Where a Type A system is required, the automatic                        any other circuits that occur prior to restoration of the silenc-
A electronic retransmission of incoming alarms shall be permit-                      ing switch to its normal position.
                                                                                     27.5.2.5 Power Supply.
   ted, provided that both of the following conditions are met:                      27.5.2.5.1 Each box circuit or wireless receiving system shall
                                                                                     be powered by one of the following:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (1) Approved facilities are provided for the automatic           (1)* Form 4A, which is an inverter, powered from a common
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} receipt, storage, retrieval, and retransmission of alarms in
  ID the order received.                                                                    rectifier, receiving power by a single source of alternating
                                                                                            current with a floating storage battery having a 24-hour
   (2) The operator(s) of the dispatch facility has the capability                          standby capacity

  IV to immediately override the automatic retransmission and

          revert to manual retransmission.
   27.5.2.2 Visual Recording Devices.

D 27.5.2.2.1 Alarms from alarm boxes shall be automatically
IN received and recorded at the communications center.

   27.5.2.2.2 A device for producing a permanent graphic
   recording of all alarm, supervisory, trouble, and test signals

R received or retransmitted, or both, shall be provided at each

   communications center for each alarm circuit and tie circuit.

O27.5.2.2.3 Reserve recording devices shall be provided in
Faccordance with 27.5.2.2.3.1 and 27.5.2.2.3.2.
27.5.2.2.3.1 Where each circuit is served by a dedicated                             (2)* Form 4B, which is an inverter, powered from a common
                                                                                     rectifier, receiving power from two sources of alternating
recording device, the number of reserve recording devices                            current with a floating storage battery having a 4-hour
required on-site shall be equal to at least 5 percent of the                         standby capacity
circuits in service and in no case less than one device.          (3)* Form 4C, which is a rectifier, converter, or motor genera-
                                                                         tor receiving power from two sources of alternating
27.5.2.2.3.2 Where two or more circuits are served by a
common recording device, a reserve recording device shall be
provided on-site for each circuit connected to a common                              current with transfer facilities to apply power from the
recorder.                                                                            secondary source to the system within 30 seconds

27.5.2.2.4 In a Type B wired system, one such recording                              27.5.2.5.2 Form 4A and Form 4B shall be permitted to distrib-
                                                                                     ute the system load between two or more common rectifiers
device shall be installed in each emergency response facility,                       and batteries.
and at least one shall be installed in the communications
center.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-168        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

27.5.2.5.3 The capacity of batteries, motor generators, rectifi-     27.5.2.8 Float-Charged Batteries.
ers, or other permitted power supplies shall exceed the calcula-   27.5.2.8.1 Float-charged batteries shall be of the storage type.
ted load of all connected circuits, so that circuits developing
grounds or crosses with other circuits each shall be able to be      Primary batteries (i.e., dry cells) shall not be used.
supplied by an independent source to the extent required by       N 27.5.2.8.1.1 Vented lead-acid batteries shall be in approved
27.5.2.5.1.
                                                                     transparent materials.

27.5.2.5.4 Provision shall be made to connect any circuit to                         N 27.5.2.8.1.2 Other types of batteries shall be in containers
any battery, generator, or rectifier, or other permitted power                          identified or approved for the purpose.
supply.                                                                                 27.5.2.8.2 Float-charged batteries shall be above building

27.5.2.5.5 Individual circuits supplied from common leads                            grade level.
shall be protected by the installation of enclosed fuses located
   at the point where the circuit conductors receive their supply.                      27.5.2.8.3 Float-charged batteries shall be located on the same
   27.5.2.5.6 Local circuits at communications centers shall be                         floor of the building as the operating equipment.
   supplied in accordance with 27.5.2.5.6.1 and 27.5.2.5.6.2.                           27.5.2.8.4 Float-charged batteries shall be accessible for main-
                                                                                        tenance and inspection.
LY 27.5.2.5.6.1 The source of power for local circuits required to                      27.5.2.8.5 Float-charged batteries shall be installed in accord-
                                                                                        ance with Article 480 of NFPA 70.
   operate the essential features of the system shall be monitored                    27.5.2.8.6 Batteries shall be mounted to provide effective
                                                                                        isolation from the ground or working platform and from other
N for integrity.                                                                        batteries.
                                                                                     N 27.5.2.8.6.1 Mounting equipment shall be listed and identi-
   27.5.2.5.6.2 Local circuits at communications centers shall be                       fied for the location.
                                                                                     N 27.5.2.8.6.2 It shall be permissible for the authority having
O permitted to be connected to the same power source as box                             jurisdiction to waive this requirement to allow the use of alter-
                                                                                        native mounting equipment where it is assured that equivalent
   circuits, wireless receiving system circuits, or a separate power                    objectives can be achieved.
   source.                                                                              27.5.2.8.7 Battery mounting shall be protected against deteri-
                                                                                        oration and shall provide stability, especially in geographic
E 27.5.2.5.7 Visual and audible means to indicate a 15 percent                          areas subject to seismic disturbance.
S or greater reduction of normal power supply (rated voltage)                           27.5.2.9 Equipment Fire Protection. Where applicable, elec-
                                                                                        tronic computer/data processing equipment shall be protected
   shall be provided.                                                                   in accordance with NFPA 75.
                                                                                        27.5.3* Remote Communications Center. Where the commu-
U 27.5.2.5.8 Where the electrical service/capacity of the equip-                        nications center is remotely located from the wired or wireless
L ment required under Section 4.7 of NFPA 1221 satisfies the                            alarm processing equipment, the requirements of 27.5.3.1
                                                                                        through 27.5.3.7, in addition to all of the requirements of
   needs of equipment in this chapter, such equipment shall not                         Section 27.5, shall apply.
                                                                                        27.5.3.1 All equipment shall be listed for its intended use and
A be required to be duplicated.                                                         shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 70.
                                                                                        27.5.3.2 Alarm processing equipment located remote from
   27.5.2.6 Rectifiers, Converters, Inverters, and Motor Genera-                        the communications center shall be capable of providing basic
                                                                                        dispatching information independent of the communications
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tors.                                                               center.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 27.5.2.6.1 Rectifiers shall be supplied from the secondary of   27.5.3.3 The alarm processing equipment shall be located
                                                                                        where it can be monitored for alarm and trouble conditions
   an isolating transformer.                                                            and shall be accessible to be manned in case of a pathway or
                                                                                        communications failure with the communications center.
IV 27.5.2.6.1.1 The primary of the isolating transformer shall be

   connected to a circuit not exceeding 250 volts.

D 27.5.2.6.2 Complete spare units or spare parts shall be in

   reserve.

IN  27.5.2.6.3 Systems with at least one rectifier shall comply with
   27.5.2.6.3.1 and 27.5.2.6.3.2.
N 27.5.2.6.3.1 One spare rectifier shall be provided for every 10

R operating rectifiers on a system.
O N 27.5.2.6.3.2 All systems shall have at least one spare rectifier.
F 27.5.2.6.4 Leads from rectifiers or motor generators that have

   a float-charged battery shall be protected by fuses rated at a
   minimum of 1 ampere and a maximum of 200 percent of
   connected load at nominal circuit voltage.

N 27.5.2.6.5 Leads from rectifiers or motor generators that do                       27.5.3.4 Wired or wireless alarm repeating systems used to
   not have a float-charged battery shall be protected by fuses                      repeat signals between a remote communications center and
   rated at a minimum of 3 amperes and a maximum of                                  the alarm processing equipment location shall meet the
   200 percent of connected load at nominal circuit voltage.                         requirements of 27.5.3.4.1 through 27.5.3.4.7.

27.5.2.7 Engine-Driven Generators. The installation of                               27.5.3.4.1 There shall be a minimum of two complete and
engine-driven generator sets shall conform to the provisions of                      independent alarm repeater systems, including batteries and
NFPA 37, NFPA 110, and NFPA 1221.                                                    power supplies, to provide redundancy.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                PUBLIC EMERGENCY ALARM REPORTING SYSTEMS                                         72-169

27.5.3.4.2 If the alarm repeater system is configured with one                    27.5.4.1.2 A metallic box open circuit condition shall cause a
alarm repeater in standby mode, the system shall be capable of                    warning signal in all other circuits, and, thereafter, the
detecting a communications failure and shall automatically                        circuit(s) not in the open circuit condition shall be automati-
switch to the backup system without interruption or loss of any   cally restored to operative condition.
alarm or trouble transmission.
                                                                  27.5.4.1.3 Box circuits shall be sufficient in number and laid
27.5.3.4.3 Alarm repeater systems shall not be used for any       out so that the areas that would be left without box protection
purpose other than alarm communications between the                               in case of disruption of a circuit do not exceed those covered
communications center and the alarm processing equipment.                         by 20 properly spaced boxes where all or any part of the circuit
                                                                  is of aerial open-wire, or by 30 properly spaced boxes where the
 27.5.3.4.4 Wireless alarm repeaters shall operate on a licensed  circuit is entirely in underground or messenger-supported
   frequency dedicated for this purpose.                          cable.

N 27.5.3.4.4.1 Wireless alarm repeaters shall be licensed to a                    27.5.4.1.4 Where all boxes on any individual circuit and asso-
   public entity.                                                                 ciated equipment are designed and installed to provide for
                                                                                  receipt of alarms through the ground in the event of a break in
N 27.5.3.4.4.2 Unlicensed frequencies shall not be permitted.                     the circuit, the circuit shall be permitted to serve twice the
                                                                                  number of aerial open-wire and cable circuits, respectively, as
Y 27.5.3.4.5 The communications method used for the alarm                         are specified in 27.5.4.1.3.
L repeater, wired or wireless, shall be two-way.                                  27.5.4.1.5 The installation of additional boxes in an area
N 27.5.3.4.6 The public emergency alarm reporting system                          served by the number of boxes spaced as indicated in 27.5.4.1.1
                                                                                  through 27.5.4.1.4 shall not constitute geographical overload-
   communications infrastructure shall be used to repeat alarm                    ing of a circuit.
                                                                                  27.5.4.1.6 Sounding devices for signals shall be provided for
O and trouble signals between the alarm processing equipment                      box circuits.
                                                                                  27.5.4.1.6.1 A common sounding device for more than one
   and a remote communications center.                                            circuit shall be permitted to be used in a Type A system and
                                                                                  shall be installed at the communications center.
E 27.5.3.4.7 Where it is not possible to use the public emer-                     27.5.4.1.6.2 In a Type B system, a sounding device shall be
                                                                                  installed in each emergency response facility at the same loca-
   gency alarm reporting system communications infrastructure                     tion as the recording device for that circuit, unless installed at
                                                                                  the communications center, where a common sounding device
S to provide communications between the alarm processing                          shall be permitted.
                                                                                  27.5.4.2 Constant-Current (100 milliampere) Systems.
   equipment and the remote communications center, an alterna-                    Constant-current systems shall comply with the requirements of
                                                                                  27.5.4.2.1 through 27.5.4.2.6.
U tive repeater method shall be permitted and shall meet the                      27.5.4.2.1 Means shall be provided for manually regulating
                                                                                  the current in box circuits so that the operating current is
   requirements of 27.5.3.4.7.1 and 27.5.3.4.7.2.                                 maintained within 10 percent of normal throughout changes
                                                                                  in external circuit resistance from 20 percent above normal to
L 27.5.3.4.7.1 If an alternative alarm repeater method is used it                 50 percent below normal.
                                                                                  27.5.4.2.2 The voltage supplied to maintain normal line
   shall be publically owned, operated, and controlled.                           current on box circuits shall not exceed 150 volts, measured
                                                                                  under no-load conditions, and shall be such that the line
A 27.5.3.4.7.2 The alternative alarm repeater method shall meet                   current cannot be reduced below the approved operating value
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the requirements of 27.5.3, except 27.5.3.4.2 shall not apply.by the simultaneous operation of four boxes.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 27.5.3.5 Pathways between the remote communications center27.5.4.2.3 Visual and audible means to indicate a 20 percent

   and the alarm processing equipment shall be monitored for
   integrity and shall be dedicated and not used for any other

IV purpose.

   27.5.3.6 When communications between the communications

D center and the alarm processing equipment fails, the require-

   ments of 27.5.3.6.1 through 27.5.3.6.3 shall apply.

IN 27.5.3.6.1 A pathway or communications trouble condition

   shall be detected and annunciated at both the communications
   center and the alarm processing equipment location within

R 200 seconds and shall meet the requirements of 27.5.2.4.

   27.5.3.6.2 Visual and audible trouble alarm indications

Opertaining to a pathway or communications failure between the
Fcommunications center and the alarm processing equipment
location shall be distinct from all other trouble alarms.                         or greater reduction in the normal current in any alarm circuit

27.5.3.6.3 The alarm processing equipment shall be manned                         shall be provided.

by trained personnel until communications can be re-                              27.5.4.2.4 All devices connected in series with any alarm
established.                                                                      circuit shall function when the alarm circuit current is reduced

27.5.3.7 Power supplies shall be provided in accordance with                      to 70 percent of normal.

27.5.2.5.                                                                         27.5.4.2.5 Meters shall comply with 27.5.4.2.5.1 and

27.5.4 Wired Network Systems.                                                     27.5.4.2.5.2.

27.5.4.1 System Arrangement and Operation.                        N 27.5.4.2.5.1 Meters shall be provided to indicate the current
                                                                     in any box circuit and the voltage of any power source.
27.5.4.1.1 For a Type B system, the effectiveness of noninter-
ference and succession functions between box circuits shall be
no less than between boxes in any one circuit.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-170                                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N 27.5.4.2.5.2 Meters used in common for two or more circuits N 27.5.5.1.1.1 Two separate receiving networks shall be required
shall be provided with cut-in devices designed to reduce the                         for each frequency.
probability of cross-connecting circuits.
                                                                                     27.5.5.1.1.2 Each receiving network shall include the follow-
27.5.4.2.6 Necessary switches, testing, and signal transmitting                      ing:
and receiving devices shall be provided to allow the isolation,
control, and test of each circuit up to at least 10 percent of the                   (1) Antenna
total number of box and dispatch circuits, but never less than                       (2) RF receiver
two circuits.                                                                        (3) Signaling processing equipment
                                                                                     (4) Time/date alarm printer
                                                                                     (5) Audible alerting device
27.5.4.3 Grounded Common-Current Systems. Where                                      (6) Power supply
common-current source systems are grounded, the require-
ments of 27.5.4.3.1 and 27.5.4.3.2 shall apply.
                                                                                     27.5.5.1.1.3 Both receiving networks shall be installed at the
27.5.4.3.1 Where common-current source systems are groun-                               communications center.
ded, the resistance of the ground shall not exceed 10 percent                           27.5.5.1.1.4 The failure of one receiving network shall not
of resistance of any connected circuit and shall be located at                          interfere with the other receiving network's ability to receive
                                                                                        messages from boxes.
Y one side of the battery.                                                              27.5.5.1.1.5 Where the system configuration is such that a
L 27.5.4.3.2 Visual and audible indicating devices shall be provi-                      polling device is incorporated into the receiving network to
N ded for each box and dispatch circuit to give immediate warn-                         allow remote or selective initiation of box tests, a separate
                                                                                        device shall be included in each of the two required receiving
ing of ground leakage current that will have a detrimental                              networks.
effect on circuit operation.                                                            27.5.5.1.1.6 The polling devices shall be configured for auto-
                                                                                        matic cycle initiation in their primary operating mode, shall be
O 27.5.4.4 Telephone (Series) Reporting Systems.                                        capable of continuous self-monitoring, and shall be integrated
E 27.5.4.4.1 A permanent visual recording device installed in                           into the network(s) to provide automatic switchover and opera-
                                                                                        tional continuity in the event of failure of either device.
the communications center shall be provided to record all                               27.5.5.1.1.7 Test signals from boxes shall not be required to
                                                                                        include the date as part of their permanent recording, provi-
S incoming box signals.                                                                 ded that the date is automatically printed on the recording
U 27.5.4.4.2 A spare recording device shall be provided for five                        tape at the beginning of each calendar day.
                                                                                        27.5.5.1.2 Type B systems shall comply with 27.5.5.1.2.1
or more box circuits.                                                                   through 27.5.5.1.2.3.
                                                                                      27.5.5.1.2.1 For each frequency used, a single, complete
L 27.5.4.4.3 A second visual means of identifying the calling box                       receiving network shall be permitted in each emergency
                                                                                        response facility, provided that the communications center
shall be provided.                                                                      conforms to 27.5.5.1.1.1 through 27.5.5.1.1.3.
                                                                                     N 27.5.5.1.2.2 Where the jurisdiction maintains two or more
A 27.5.4.4.4 Audible signals shall indicate all incoming calls                          alarm reception points in operation, one receiving network
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U from box circuits.                                                  shall be permitted to be at each alarm reception point.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 27.5.4.4.5 All voice transmissions from boxes for emergencies   27.5.5.1.2.3 Where alarm signals are transmitted to an emer-
                                                                                        gency response facility from the communications center using
shall be recorded with the capability of instant playback.                              the wireless-type receiving equipment in the emergency
                                                                                        response facility to receive and record the alarm message, a
IV 27.5.4.4.6 A voice-recording facility shall be provided for each                     second receiving network conforming to 27.5.5.1.2.1 shall be
                                                                                        provided at each emergency response facility, and that receiv-
operator handling incoming alarms to eliminate the possibility                          ing network shall employ a frequency other than that used for
of interference.                                                                        the receipt of box messages.

D 27.5.4.4.7 Box circuits shall be sufficient in number and laid

out so that the areas that would be left without box protection

IN in case of disruption of a circuit do not exceed those covered

by 20 properly spaced boxes where all or any part of the circuit
is of aerial open-wire, or 30 properly spaced boxes where the

R circuit is entirely in underground or messenger-supported

cable.

O 27.5.4.4.8 Where all boxes on any individual circuit and asso-
Fciated equipment are designed and installed to provide for

receipt of alarms through the ground in the event of a break in
the circuit, the circuit shall be permitted to serve twice the
number of aerial open-wire and cable circuits, respectively, as is
specified in 27.5.4.4.7.                                                             27.5.5.1.3 A device for producing a permanent graphic
                                                                                     recording of all alarm, supervisory, trouble, and test signals
                                                                                     received or retransmitted, or both, shall be provided at the
27.5.4.4.9 The installation of additional boxes in an area                           communications center.
served by the number of boxes spaced as indicated in 27.5.4.4.7
shall not constitute geographical overloading of a circuit.
                                                                                     27.5.5.1.4* Where box message signals to the communications
                                                                                     center or acknowledgment of message receipt signals from the
27.5.5 Wireless Network.                                                             communications center to the box are repeated, associated

27.5.5.1 System Arrangement and Operation.                                           repeating facilities shall conform to the requirements of
                                                                                     27.5.5.1.1.2(1), (2), (3), and (6) and include two separate
27.5.5.1.1* Type A systems shall comply with 27.5.5.1.1.1                            transmitters.
through 27.5.5.1.1.7.

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                    PUBLIC EMERGENCY ALARM REPORTING SYSTEMS                                        72-171

27.5.5.2 Power. Power shall be provided in accordance with      27.6.1.1 Concurrent operation of at least four boxes shall not
27.5.2.5.                                                       result in the loss of an alarm.

27.5.5.3 Monitoring for Integrity.                              27.6.1.2 Boxes and associated equipment, when in an abnor-
                                                                mal condition, shall not disable the public emergency alarm
 27.5.5.3.1 All wireless box systems shall comply with          reporting system circuit.
   27.5.5.3.1.1 and 27.5.5.3.1.2.
                                                                                     27.6.1.3 Boxes shall be designed so that recycling does not
N 27.5.5.3.1.1 All wireless box systems shall provide constant                       occur when a box-actuating device is held in the actuating posi-
   monitoring of each radio frequency in use.                                        tion and shall be ready to accept a new signal as soon as the

N 27.5.5.3.1.2 Both an audible and a visual indication of any                        actuating device is released.

   sustained signal in excess of a 15-second duration shall be                       27.6.1.4* Boxes, when actuated, shall give a visual or audible
   provided for each receiving system at the communications                          indication to the user that the box is operating or that the
   center.                                                                           signal has been transmitted to the communications center.
   27.5.5.3.2 The power supplied to all required circuits and                        27.6.1.5 Box cases and parts that are accessible to the public
                                                                                     shall be permitted to be of nonconductive material.
Y devices of the system shall be monitored for integrity.                            27.6.1.6 Box cases and parts that are accessible to the public
L 27.5.5.3.3* Each wireless box shall automatically transmit a                       and that are constructed of conductive materials shall be instal-
                                                                                     led in accordance with the requirements of NFPA 70, Articles
   test message at least once in each 24-hour period.                                250 and 760.
                                                                                     27.6.2* Publicly Accessible Alarm Boxes.
N  27.5.5.3.4 Receiving equipment associated with wireless-type                      27.6.2.1 Fundamental Requirements. The requirements of
   systems shall comply with 27.5.5.3.4.1 and 27.5.5.3.4.2.                          27.6.2.1.1 through 27.6.2.1.11 shall apply to all publicly accessi-
                                                                                     ble alarm boxes.
O N 27.5.5.3.4.1 Receiving equipment associated with wireless-type                   27.6.2.1.1 Means for actuation of alarms by the public shall be
   systems, including any related repeater(s), shall be tested at                    located where they are visible, unobstructed, and readily acces-
E least hourly.                                                                      sible.
                                                                                     27.6.2.1.2 The box housing shall protect the internal compo-
S N 27.5.5.3.4.2 The receipt of test messages that do not exceed                     nents and shall be identified for the location installed.
   60-minute intervals shall meet the requirement in 27.5.5.3.4.1.                   27.6.2.1.3 Doors on boxes shall remain operable under
                                                                                     adverse climatic conditions, including icing and salt spray.
U  27.5.5.3.5 Radio repeaters upon which receipt of alarms                           27.6.2.1.4 Boxes shall be recognizable as such and shall have
   depend shall be provided with dual receivers, transmitters, and                   instructions for use plainly marked on their exterior surfaces.
L power supplies.                                                                    27.6.2.1.5 Boxes shall be securely mounted on poles, pedes-
                                                                                     tals, or structural surfaces as directed by the authority having
A N 27.5.5.3.5.1 Failure of the primary receiver, transmitter, or                    jurisdiction.
   power supply shall cause an automatic switchover to the secon-                    27.6.2.1.6* The location of publicly accessible boxes shall be
                                                                                     designated by the authority having jurisdiction.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U dary receiver, transmitter, or power supply.                     27.6.2.1.7 Schools, hospitals, nursing homes, and places of
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 27.5.5.3.5.2 Manual switchover shall be permitted, providedpublic assembly shall have a box located at the main entrance,
                                                                                     as directed by the authority having jurisdiction.
   that it is completed within 30 seconds.                                           27.6.2.1.8 Boxes shall be conspicuously visible and be high-
                                                                                     lighted with a distinctive color.
IV 27.5.5.3.6 Trouble signals shall activate a sounding device                       27.6.2.1.9 All publicly accessible boxes mounted on support
                                                                                     poles shall be identified by a wide band of distinctive colors or
   located where there is always a trained, competent person on                      signs placed 8 ft (2.44 m) above the ground and visible from all
   duty.

D 27.5.5.3.7 Trouble signals shall be distinct from alarm signals
IN and shall be indicated by a visual and audible signal.

   27.5.5.3.7.1 The audible signal shall be permitted to be
   common to two or more monitored circuits.

R 27.5.5.3.7.2 A switch for silencing the audible trouble signal

   shall be permitted where the visual signal remains operating

Ountil the silencing switch is restored to its normal position.
F27.5.5.3.8 The audible signal shall be responsive to subse-

   quent faults in other monitored functions prior to restoration
   of the silencing switch.

27.5.5.4 Physical Protection of Transmission Line. The                               directions wherever possible.

antenna transmission line between the transmitter and the                            27.6.2.1.10* Location-designating lights shall comply with
antenna shall be installed in rigid metal, intermediate metal                        27.6.2.1.10.1 and 27.6.2.1.10.2.
conduit, or electrical metallic tubing in accordance with
NFPA 70.                                                        N 27.6.2.1.10.1 Location-designating lights of distinctive color,
27.6 Alarm Boxes.                                                  visible for at least 1500 ft (460 m) in all directions, shall be
                                                                   installed over boxes.

27.6.1* General. The requirements of 27.6.1.1 through           N 27.6.2.1.10.2 The street light nearest the box, where equipped
27.6.1.6 shall apply to all alarm boxes.                           with a distinctively colored light, shall meet 27.6.2.1.10.1.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-172        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

27.6.2.1.11 Where boxes are installed inside a structure, the                        27.6.3.2.2 Types of Systems.
installation shall comply with 27.6.2.1.11.1 through
27.6.2.1.11.4.                                                                       27.6.3.2.2.1 Auxiliary alarm systems shall be one of the follow-
                                                                                     ing types:
   27.6.2.1.11.1 The box shall be placed as close as is practicable
   to the point of entrance of the circuit.                                          (1)* Local energy­type
 27.6.2.1.11.2* Outside plant cables entering buildings or                                  (a) Local energy­type systems shall be permitted to be
   other structures shall be installed in rigid metal conduit, inter-                              of the coded or noncoded type.
   mediate metal conduit, or electrical metallic tubing.                                    (b) Power supply sources for local energy­type systems
                                                                                                   shall conform to Chapter 10.
                                                                                                (c) Transmitter trouble signals shall be indicated at the
N 27.6.2.1.11.3 Schedule 80 PVC or RTRC rigid nonmetallic                                              control unit and the building fire command center
   conduit shall be permitted for underground installations,                                           in accordance with 10.15.7.
   provided that all elbows are rigid or intermediate metal
   conduit.                                                                             (2)* Shunt-type
                                                                                                (a) Shunt-type systems shall be noncoded with respect
N 27.6.2.1.11.4 The installation shall comply with the require-                                        to any remote electrical tripping or activating devi-
                                                                                                       ces.
Y ments of the applicable raceway article of NFPA 70.                                           (b) All conductors of the shunt circuit shall be installed
L 27.6.3 Auxiliary Alarm Box.                                                                          in accordance with NFPA 70, Article 344, for rigid
N 27.6.3.1 Fundamental Requirements. The requirements of                                               metal conduit, or Article 358, for electrical metallic
                                                                                                       tubing.
   27.6.3.1.1 through 27.6.3.1.6 shall apply to all auxiliary alarm                             (c) Both sides of the shunt circuit shall be in the same
                                                                                                       conduit.
O boxes.                                                                                        (d) Where a shunt loop is used, it shall not exceed a
                                                                                                       length of 750 ft (230 m) and shall be in conduit.
   27.6.3.1.1 The authority having jurisdiction shall designate                                 (e) Conductors of the shunt circuits shall not be
                                                                                                       smaller than 14 AWG and shall be insulated as
E the location of the auxiliary box.                                                                   prescribed in NFPA 70, Article 310.
                                                                                                (f) The power for shunt-type systems shall be provided
 27.6.3.1.2* Outside plant cables entering buildings or other                                          by the public emergency alarm reporting system.
                                                                                                (g)* A local system made to an auxiliary alarm system by
S structures shall be installed in rigid metal conduit, intermedi-                                     the addition of a relay whose coil is energized by a
                                                                                                       local power supply and whose normally closed
   ate metal conduit, or electrical metallic tubing.                                                   contacts trip a shunt-type master box shall not be
                                                                                                       permitted.
U N 27.6.3.1.2.1 Schedule 80 PVC or RTRC rigid nonmetallic
L conduit shall be permitted for underground installations,                           27.6.3.2.2.2 The interface of the two types of auxiliary alarm
                                                                                        systems with the three types of public emergency alarm report-
   provided that all elbows are rigid or intermediate metal                             ing systems shall be in accordance with Table 27.6.3.2.2.2.

A conduit.                                                                            27.6.3.2.2.3 The application of the two types of auxiliary alarm
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U N 27.6.3.1.2.2 The installation shall comply with the require-      systems shall be limited to the initiating devices specified in
                                                                                        Table 27.6.3.2.2.3.
   ments of the applicable raceway article of NFPA 70.                                  27.6.3.2.3 System Arrangement and Operation.
                                                                                        27.6.3.2.3.1 Shunt-type auxiliary alarm systems shall be
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 27.6.3.1.3* Wiring between the auxiliary alarm system and the   arranged so that one auxiliary transmitter does not serve more
                                                                                        than 100,000 ft2 (9290 m2) total area or as otherwise permitted
   auxiliary alarm box or master alarm box shall be installed in                        by the authority having jurisdiction.
                                                                                        27.6.3.2.3.2 A separate auxiliary transmitter shall be provided
IV rigid metal conduit, intermediate metal conduit, or electrical                       for each building, or where permitted by the authority having

   metallic tubing and shall meet the requirements of pathway
   survivability Level 2 (see 12.4.3).

D 27.6.3.1.4 Where installed outside a structure, the require-

   ments of 27.6.2.1.2 and 27.6.2.1.5 shall apply.

IN 27.6.3.1.5 Where the auxiliary box is a wired box, the require-

   ments of Section 27.7 shall apply.

R 27.6.3.1.6 Where the auxiliary box is a wireless box, the

   requirements of 27.6.6 shall apply.

FO 27.6.3.2 Auxiliary Alarm Systems.
27.6.3.2.1 Application. The equipment and circuits necessary                         jurisdiction, for each group of buildings of single ownership or
to connect a protected premises to a public emergency alarm                          occupancy.
reporting system shall comply with the requirements of
27.6.3.2.

27.6.3.2.1.1 Where permitted by the authority having jurisdic-                        Table 27.6.3.2.2.2 Application of Public Emergency Alarm
tion, the use of systems described in Chapter 27 shall be                               Reporting Systems with Auxiliary Alarm Systems
permitted to provide defined reporting functions from or
within private premises.                                                                   Reporting       Local    Shunt-Type
27.6.3.2.1.2 The requirements of Section 27.7 shall also apply                               Systems   Energy-Type       Yes
to wired auxiliary alarm systems.                                                    Wired                               No
                                                                                     Wireless               Yes          No
                                                                                     Telephone series       Yes
                                                                                                            Yes

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                   PUBLIC EMERGENCY ALARM REPORTING SYSTEMS                                                                                72-173

 Table 27.6.3.2.2.3 Application of Initiating Devices with            and controls shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 23 in
   Auxiliary Alarm Systems                                            addition to the provisions of 27.6.3.2.

                Initiating             Local    Shunt-Type            27.6.3.2.3.15 Where an auxiliary alarm system is in an alarm
                 Devices           Energy-Type       Yes              condition that has been acknowledged, deactivated, or
Manually actuated alarm-                                              bypassed, subsequent actuation of initiating devices on other
  initiating device                     Yes                           initiating device circuits or subsequent actuation of addressable
Waterflow or actuation of the                                         initiating devices on signaling line circuits shall cause an alarm
  fire extinguishing system(s) or  Yes                      Yes       signal to be transmitted to the communications center.
  suppression system(s)                                               27.6.3.2.3.16 Where an auxiliary transmitter is located within
Automatic detection devices        Yes                      No        a private premises, it shall be installed in accordance with
                                                                      27.6.2.1.11 and 27.7.2.

   27.6.3.2.3.3 The same box shall be permitted to be used as a                                        27.6.3.2.3.17 Where data communications between a
                                                                                                       microprocessor-based control unit and an auxiliary alarm
Y public emergency alarm reporting system box and as a trans-                                          system are utilized, they shall comply with all of the require-
                                                                                                       ments in 27.6.3.2.3.17(A) through 27.6.3.2.3.17(C).
   mitting device for an auxiliary alarm system where permitted by                                     (A) The monitoring for integrity shall include communica-
                                                                                                       tions test messages transmitted between the control unit and
L the authority having jurisdiction, provided that the box is loca-                                    the auxiliary alarm system.
                                                                                                       (B) The communications test message shall be initiated by
   ted at the outside of the entrance to the protected property.                                       either the control unit or the auxiliary alarm system and shall
                                                                                                       require a response from the corresponding unit, and the
N 27.6.3.2.3.4 Where 27.6.3.2.3.3 is applied, the authority having                                     following shall apply:
O jurisdiction shall be permitted to require the box to be equip-                                      (1) An invalid response or no response from the control unit

   ped with a signal light to differentiate between automatic and                                             or the auxiliary alarm system shall be recognized as a
   manual operation, unless local outside alarms at the protected                                             communications failure.
                                                                                                       (2) A communications failure shall initiate a specific commu-
E property serve the same purpose.                                                                            nications failure trouble message, which shall be transmit-
S 27.6.3.2.3.5 The transmitting device shall be located as                                                    ted from the auxiliary alarm system and shall be
                                                                                                              automatically indicated within 200 seconds at the commu-
   required by the authority having jurisdiction.                                                             nications center.
                                                                                                       (3) A trouble condition in 27.6.3.2.3.17(B)(2) shall activate
U 27.6.3.2.3.6 Unless otherwise modified by 27.6.3.2.3.7, the                                                 an audible and distinctive visual signal at the auxiliary
                                                                                                              box indicating a communications failure.
   system shall be designed and arranged so that a single fault on                                     (4) A trouble condition shall be indicated at the control unit
                                                                                                              and the building fire command center in accordance with
L the auxiliary alarm system shall not jeopardize operation of the                                            10.15.7.
                                                                                                       (C) Where a separate device is required to interface the
   public emergency alarm reporting system and shall not, in case                                      control unit to the auxiliary alarm system, all communication
                                                                                                       paths shall be monitored for integrity and shall comply with
A of a single fault on either the auxiliary or public emergency                                        27.6.3.2.3.17.
                                                                                                       27.6.4 Master Alarm Boxes. Master alarm boxes shall comply
   alarm reporting system, transmit a false alarm on either system.                                    with the requirements of 27.6.2 and 27.6.3.
                                                                                                       27.6.5 Wired Network Boxes. The requirements of
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 27.6.3.2.3.7 The requirements of 27.6.3.2.3.6 shall not applySection 27.7 shall apply to wired network boxes.
ID to shunt systems complying with 27.6.3.2.2.1(2).                                                    27.6.5.1 Telephone Boxes. The requirements of Section 27.7

   27.6.3.2.3.8 A means that is available only to the agency

IV responsible for maintaining the public emergency alarm

   reporting system shall be provided for disconnecting the auxili-
   ary loop to the connected property.

D 27.6.3.2.3.9 Notification shall be given to the designated
IN representative of the property when the auxiliary box is not in

   service.
 27.6.3.2.3.10 An auxiliary alarm system shall be used only in

R connection with a public emergency alarm reporting system

   that is approved for the service.

O N 27.6.3.2.3.11 A system approved by the authority having juris-
Fdiction shall meet the requirement in 27.6.3.2.3.10.
27.6.3.2.3.12 Permission for the connection of an auxiliary                                            shall also apply to telephone boxes.

alarm system to a public emergency alarm reporting system,                                             27.6.5.1.1 Where a handset is used, the caps on the transmit-
and acceptance of the type of auxiliary transmitter and its acti-                                      ter and receiver shall be secured to reduce the probability of
vating mechanism, circuits, and components connected                                                   the telephone box being disabled due to vandalism.
thereto, shall be obtained from the authority having jurisdic-
tion.                                                                                                  27.6.5.1.2 Telephone boxes shall be designed to allow the
                                                                                                       communications center operator to determine whether or not
 27.6.3.2.3.13 Paragraph 27.6.3.2 shall not require the use of                                         the telephone box has been restored to normal condition after
audible alarm signals other than those necessary to operate the                                        use.
auxiliary alarm system.
                                                                                                       27.6.6 Wireless Network Boxes.
N 27.6.3.2.3.14 Where it is desired to provide evacuation signals
   in the protected property, the notification appliances, circuits,                                   27.6.6.1 In addition to the requirements of this Code, wireless
                                                                                                       boxes shall be designed and operated in compliance with all

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-174                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Communica-                                           as part of subsequent test messages until primary power is
tions Commission (FCC) or, where required by other govern-                                           restored.
ing laws, the National Telecommunications and Information                                            27.6.6.10.6 A low-battery message shall be transmitted to the
Administration (NTIA).                                                                               communications center where the remaining battery standby

27.6.6.2* Each wireless box shall automatically transmit a test                                      time is less than 54 hours.
message at least once in each 24-hour period.
                                                                                                     27.6.6.11 Boxes powered by a solar photovoltaic system shall
27.6.6.3 Wireless network boxes shall be capable of transmit-                                        comply with 27.6.6.11.1 through 27.6.6.11.5.
ting no less than three specific signals to the communications
center, in addition to the box number, with priority as follows:                                     27.6.6.11.1 Solar photovoltaic power systems shall provide box
                                                                                                     operation for not less than 6 months.
(1) Alarm
(2) Tamper                                                                                           27.6.6.11.2 Solar photovoltaic power systems shall be moni-
                                                                                                        tored for integrity.
   (3) Test                                                                                             27.6.6.11.3 The battery shall have power to sustain operation
   27.6.6.4 Wireless boxes shall transmit to the communications                                         for a minimum period of 15 days without recharging.
                                                                                                      27.6.6.11.4 Boxes shall comply with 27.6.6.11.4.1 and
Y center with priority as follows:                                                                      27.6.6.11.4.2.
L (1) No less than two repetitions for "alarm"                                                       N 27.6.6.11.4.1 The box shall transmit a trouble message to the
                                                                                                        communications center when the charger has failed for more
   (2) No less than one repetition for "tamper"                                                         than 24 hours.
                                                                                                     N 27.6.6.11.4.2 The trouble message shall be part of all subse-
N (3) No less than one repetition for "test"                                                            quent transmissions.
                                                                                                        27.6.6.11.5 Where the remaining battery standby duration is
   27.6.6.5 Where wireless network boxes transmit more than                                             less than 10 days, a low-battery message shall be transmitted to
                                                                                                        the communications center.
O one alarm signal, in addition to those in 27.6.6.3, each such                                         27.6.6.12 User-powered boxes shall have an automatic self-test
                                                                                                        feature.
   signal shall be individually identifiable.                                                           27.6.6.13 Self-powered boxes shall comply with 27.6.6.13.1
                                                                                                        through 27.6.6.13.3.
E 27.6.6.6 Where wireless network boxes transmit more than                                              27.6.6.13.1 Self-powered boxes shall operate for a period of
                                                                                                        not less than 6 months.
   one alarm signal, they shall be designed to prevent the loss of                                    27.6.6.13.2 Self-powered boxes shall comply with 27.6.6.13.2.1
                                                                                                        and 27.6.6.13.2.2.
S supplemental or concurrently activated signals.                                                    N 27.6.6.13.2.1 Self-powered boxes shall transmit a low-power
U 27.6.6.7* Where wireless network boxes transmit more than                                             warning message to the communications center for at least 15
                                                                                                        days prior to the time the power source will fail to operate the
   one alarm signal, the priority of each alarm shall be as assigned                                    box.
                                                                                                     N 27.6.6.13.2.2 The low-power warning message shall be part of
L by the authority having jurisdiction.                                                                 all subsequent transmissions.
                                                                                                        27.6.6.13.3 Self-powered boxes shall comply with 27.6.6.13.3.1
   27.6.6.8 An actuating device held or locked in the activated                                         and 27.6.6.13.3.2.
                                                                                                     N 27.6.6.13.3.1 Use of a charger to extend the life of a self-
A position shall not prevent the activation and transmission of                                         powered box shall be permitted where the charger does not
                                                                                                        interfere with box operation.
   other signals.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 27.6.6.9 The primary power source for wireless boxes shall be
ID permitted to be from one or more of the following, as

   approved by the authority having jurisdiction:

IV (1) Utility distribution system

   (2) Solar photovoltaic power system
   (3) User power

D (4) Self-powered, using either an integral battery or other
           stored energy source

IN 27.6.6.10 Boxes powered by a utility distribution system shall

   comply with 27.6.6.10.1 through 27.6.6.10.6.

R  27.6.6.10.1 Boxes shall comply with 27.6.6.10.1.1 and
   27.6.6.10.1.2.

O N 27.6.6.10.1.1 Boxes shall have an integral standby, sealed,
Frechargeable battery that is capable of powering box functions

   for at least 60 hours in the event of primary power failure.

N 27.6.6.10.1.2 Transfer to standby battery power shall be auto-                                     N 27.6.6.13.3.2 The box shall be capable of operation for not
   matic and without interruption to box operation.                                                     less than 6 months with the charger disconnected.

27.6.6.10.2 A local trouble indication shall activate upon                                           27.7 Public Cable Plant. Metallic and fiber-optic cabling
primary power failure.                                                                               systems and interconnections between alarm transmission

27.6.6.10.3 Boxes operating from primary power shall be                                              equipment and alarm-receiving equipment shall comply with
capable of operation with a dead or disconnected battery.                                            the requirements of Section 27.7.

27.6.6.10.4 A battery charger shall be provided in compliance
with 10.6.10.3, except as modified in 27.6.6.10.

27.6.6.10.5 When the primary power has failed, boxes shall
transmit a power failure message to the communications center

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                          PUBLIC EMERGENCY ALARM REPORTING SYSTEMS                                                                              72-175

27.7.1 Requirements for Metallic and Fiber-Optic Systems -- N 27.7.1.2.7.2 Tests shall indicate an insulation resistance of at
Metallic and Fiber-Optic Interconnections.                                               least 200 megohms per mile between any one conductor and
                                                                     all other conductors, the sheath, and the ground.
27.7.1.1 Circuit Conductors and Fiber-Optic Strands.
                                                                     27.7.1.3 Underground Cables.
27.7.1.1.1 Exterior metallic, fiber-optic cable and wire, other
than those provided by a public utility on a lease basis, shall      27.7.1.3.1 Underground metallic and fiber-optic cables in
conform to International Municipal Signal Association (IMSA)         duct or direct burial shall be permitted to be brought above-
specifications or an approved equivalent.                                                ground only at locations approved by the authority having juris-
                                                                                         diction.
27.7.1.1.2 Where a public box is installed inside a building,
the circuit from the point of entrance to the public box shall                           27.7.1.3.1.1 Protection from physical damage or heat inciden-
be installed in rigid metal conduit, intermediate metal conduit,                         tal to fires in adjacent buildings shall be provided.
   or electrical metallic tubing in accordance with NFPA 70.
   27.7.1.1.3 Wires and fiber-optic strands shall be terminated so                       27.7.1.3.2 Only fiber-optic and power-limited cables and
   as to prevent breaking from vibration or stress.                                      conductors shall be permitted to be located in duct systems and
                                                                                         manholes that contain power-limited public emergency alarm
Y 27.7.1.1.4 Circuit conductors and fiber-optic cables on termi-                         reporting system conductors.
L nal racks shall be identified and isolated from conductors of                          27.7.1.3.3 Where located in duct systems or manholes that
                                                                                         contain power circuit conductors over 250 volts to ground,
   other systems wherever possible and shall be protected from                           metallic and fiber-optic emergency alarm cables shall be loca-
                                                                                         ted as far as possible from such power cables and shall be sepa-
N mechanical injury.                                                                     rated from them by a noncombustible barrier or other means
O 27.7.1.2 Cables. The requirements of 27.7.1.2 shall apply to                           approved by the authority having jurisdiction to protect the
                                                                                         emergency alarm cables from physical damage.
   27.7.1.3 through 27.7.1.6.                                                            27.7.1.3.4 All cables installed in manholes shall be racked and
                                                                                         marked for identification.
E 27.7.1.2.1 Exterior metallic and fiber-optic cable and wire                            27.7.1.3.5 Raceways or ducts entering buildings from under-
                                                                                         ground duct systems shall be effectively sealed with an identi-
   shall conform to IMSA specifications or an approved equiva-                           fied sealing compound or other means acceptable to the
                                                                                         authority having jurisdiction to prevent the entrance of mois-
S lent.                                                                                  ture or gases from the underground duct system.
                                                                                         27.7.1.3.6 All cable joints shall be located in manholes, emer-
   27.7.1.2.2 Overhead, underground, or direct burial cables                             gency response facilities, or other accessible locations accepta-
                                                                                         ble to the authority having jurisdiction where equivalent
U shall be specifically approved for the purpose.                                        protection is provided to minimize physical damage to the
L 27.7.1.2.3 Metallic and fiber-optic cables used in interior                            cable.
                                                                                         27.7.1.3.6.1 Cable joints shall be made to provide and main-
   installations shall comply with NFPA 70 and shall be installed in                     tain conductivity, optical continuity for fiber-optic cable, insula-
                                                                                         tion, and protection at least equal to that afforded by the cables
A accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions                           that are joined.
                                                                                         27.7.1.3.6.2 Open cable ends shall be sealed against moisture.
   and practices.                                                                        27.7.1.3.7 Direct-burial cable, without enclosure in ducts, shall
                                                                                         be laid in grass plots, under sidewalks, or in other places where
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 27.7.1.2.4 Conductors and/or fiber-optic strands used to             the ground is not likely to be opened for other underground
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} transmit signals of other systems that are under the control of aconstruction.
                                                                                         27.7.1.3.7.1 Where splices are made, such splices shall be
   governmental agency shall be permitted to be contained within                         accessible for inspection and tests.
   the same multi-conductor cable as conductors and/or fiber-

IV optic strands used to transmit signals of public emergency

   alarm reporting systems.

D 27.7.1.2.5 By special permission as defined in NFPA 70, cables

   not under the control of a governmental agency shall be

IN permitted to contain conductors and/or fiber-optic strands

   used to transmit signals of a public emergency alarm reporting
   system.

R 27.7.1.2.6 Signaling wire and fiber-optic cables containing

   metallic protection or strength members shall comply with

O27.7.1.2.6.1 and 27.7.1.2.6.2.
F27.7.1.2.6.1 Signaling wires supplied by a power source having

   a voltage and/or current rating sufficient to introduce a hazard
shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 70, Article 760,                              27.7.1.3.7.2 Such cables shall be buried at least 18 in.
Part II.                                                                                 (460 mm) deep and, where crossing streets or other areas likely
                                                                                         to be opened for other underground construction, shall be in
27.7.1.2.6.2 Fiber-optic cables containing metallic protection                           duct or conduit.
or strength members shall be grounded and protected in
accordance with NFPA 70.                                                                 27.7.1.4 Aerial Construction.

 27.7.1.2.7 Metallic cables shall comply with 27.7.1.2.7.1 and                           27.7.1.4.1 Cables containing conductors and/or fiber-optic
   27.7.1.2.7.2.                                                                         strands used to transmit signals of public emergency alarm
                                                                                         reporting systems shall be located below all other cables and
N 27.7.1.2.7.1 All metallic cables, with all taps and splices made,                      conductors, except those used for communications purposes.
   shall be tested for insulation resistance when installed but
   before connection to terminals.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-176                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

27.7.1.4.1.1 Precautions shall be provided where passing             N 27.7.1.6.2.1 Where installed in buildings, conductors and
through trees, under bridges, over railroads, and at other              fiber-optic cables shall be permitted to be installed in rigid
places where subject to physical damage.                                nonmetallic conduit where approved by the authority having
27.7.1.4.1.2 Conductors and cables for public emergency                 jurisdiction.
alarm reporting system use shall not be attached to a crossarm
that carries electric light and power conductors.                     27.7.1.6.3 Conductors and fiber-optic cables shall comply with
                                                                        27.7.1.6.3.1 and 27.7.1.6.3.2.

N 27.7.1.4.1.3 Conductors that operate at 250 volts or less and N 27.7.1.6.3.1 Conductors and fiber-optic cables shall have an
are part of the public emergency alarm reporting system shall                          approved insulation.
be permitted to share the crossarm with conductors and cables
for public emergency alarm reporting systems.                                          N 27.7.1.6.3.2 The insulation or other outer covering shall be
                                                                                          flame-retardant and moisture resistant.
   27.7.1.4.2 Aerial cable shall be supported by messenger wire
   of approved tensile strength or shall conform to one of the                          27.7.1.6.4 Conductors and fiber-optic cables shall comply with
   following:                                                                             27.7.1.6.4.1 and 27.7.1.6.4.2.
                                                                                          27.7.1.6.4.1 Conductors and fiber-optic cables shall be instal-
Y (1) IMSA specifications as a self-supporting cable assembly or                          led as far as possible without splices or joints.
           an approved equivalent                                                         27.7.1.6.4.2 Splices or joints shall be permitted only in listed
                                                                                          junction or terminal boxes.
L (2) Fiber-optic cable with integral supporting means or all-                            27.7.1.6.5 Enclosures shall comply with 27.7.1.6.5.1 and
           dielectric self-supporting (ADSS) type                                         27.7.1.6.5.2.

N  27.7.1.4.3 Single wire shall comply with 27.7.1.4.3.1 and                           N 27.7.1.6.5.1 Enclosures containing public emergency alarm
O 27.7.1.4.3.2.                                                                           reporting system circuits shall be provided with red covers or
                                                                                          doors.
N 27.7.1.4.3.1 Single wire shall meet IMSA specifications and
                                                                                       N 27.7.1.6.5.2 The words "public emergency alarm reporting
E conform to one of the following:                                                        system circuit" shall be clearly marked on all enclosures, termi-
                                                                                          nal boxes, and junction locations to prevent unintentional
   (1) Be at least No. 10 Roebling gauge if of galvanized iron or                         interference.
                                                                                          27.7.1.6.6 Wire and fiber-optic terminals, terminal boxes, spli-
  S steel                                                                                 ces, and joints shall conform to NFPA 70.

   (2) Be at least 10 AWG if of hard-drawn copper                                      N 27.7.1.6.7 Metallic and fiber-optic cables and wiring exposed
                                                                                          to a hazard shall be protected in an approved manner.
U (3) Be at least 12 AWG if of approved copper-covered steel
                                                                                       N 27.7.1.6.8 Metallic and fiber-optic cable terminals and cross-
   (4) Be at least 6 AWG if of aluminum                                                   connecting facilities shall be located in or adjacent to the oper-
                                                                                          ations room.
L N 27.7.1.4.3.2 Span lengths shall not exceed the manufacturer's                         27.7.1.6.9 Where signal conductors, non-dielectric fiber-optic
A recommendations.                                                                        cables, and electric light and power wires are run in the same
                                                                                          shaft, they shall be separated by at least 2 in. (51 mm), or either
   27.7.1.4.4 Wires to buildings shall contact only intended                              system shall be encased in a noncombustible enclosure.
                                                                                          27.7.2 Signal Transmission and Receiving Circuits. Signal
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U supports.                                                             transmission and receiving circuits shall comply with the
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N 27.7.1.4.5 Wires to buildings shall enter through an approved   requirements of 27.7.2.1 and 27.7.2.2.
                                                                                          27.7.2.1 General.
   weatherhead or sleeves slanting upward and inward.                                     27.7.2.1.1 ANSI/IEEE C2, National Electrical Safety Code, shall

IV N 27.7.1.4.6 Drip loops shall be formed on wires outside of
   buildings.
D 27.7.1.5 Leads Down Poles.
IN 27.7.1.5.1 Leads down poles shall be protected from physical
   damage. Any metallic covering shall form a continuous
   conducting path to ground. Installation, in all cases, shall
   prevent water from entering the conduit or box.
R 27.7.1.5.2 Leads to boxes shall have 600-volt insulation listed
O or approved for wet locations, as defined in NFPA 70.
F27.7.1.6 Wiring Inside Buildings.
27.7.1.6.1 At the communications center, all conductors,                               be used as a guide for the installation of outdoor circuitry.

cables, and fiber-optic cables shall extend as directly as possible                    27.7.2.1.2 Installation shall provide for the following:
to the operations center in conduits, ducts, shafts, raceways, or
overhead racks and troughs listed or identified as suitable to                         (1) Continuity of service
provide protection against physical damage.                                            (2) Protection from mechanical damage
                                                                                       (3) Disablement from heat that is incidental to fire
                                                                                       (4) Damage by floods, corrosive vapors, or other causes
27.7.1.6.2* Where installed in buildings, conductors and fiber-
optic cables shall be installed in any of the following wiring
methods:                                                                               27.7.2.1.3 Open local circuits within single buildings shall be
                                                                                       permitted in accordance with Chapter 23.
(1) Electrical metallic tubing
(2) Intermediate metal conduit                                                         27.7.2.1.4 All circuits shall be routed so as to allow tracing of
(3) Rigid metal conduit                                                                circuits for trouble.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

          SINGLE- AND MULTIPLE-STATION ALARMS AND HOUSEHOLD SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                      72-177

 27.7.2.1.5 Circuits shall not pass over, under, or through or be   27.7.3.10 Aerial open-wire and nonmessenger-supported, two-
   attached to buildings or property not owned by or under the      conductor cable circuits shall be protected by a surge protec-
   control of the authority having jurisdiction or the agency       tive device at intervals not to exceed 2000 ft (610 m).
   responsible for maintaining the system.                          27.7.3.11 Where used for aerial construction, surge protective
                                                                    device, other than of the air-gap or self-restoring types, shall
N 27.7.2.1.5.1 The requirements of 27.7.2.1.5 shall not apply       not be installed in public emergency alarm reporting circuits.
   where the circuit is terminated at a public emergency alarm      27.7.3.12 All protective devices used for aerial construction
   reporting system initiating device on the building or property.  shall be accessible for maintenance and inspection.
   27.7.2.2 Interior Box Circuits.

27.7.2.2.1 A means accessible only to the authority having                           27.8 Emergency Communications Systems (ECS).
   jurisdiction or the agency responsible for maintaining the
   public emergency alarm reporting systems shall be provided to                     27.8.1* Public emergency alarm reporting systems that are
   disconnect all circuit conductors inside a building or other                      capable of two-way wired or wireless communications with
   structure.                                                                        command and control capabilities and/or voice communica-
                                                                                     tions capabilities shall be permitted to be used as part of the
Y 27.7.2.2.2 Definite notification shall be given to the designa-                    communications infrastructure of an emergency communica-
L ted building representative when the interior box(es) is out of                    tions system (ECS), provided that it does not interfere with the
                                                                                     public emergency alarm reporting system.
   service.                                                                          27.8.2 The method of interfacing and monitoring for integrity
                                                                                     between the public emergency alarm reporting system and the
N 27.7.3* Circuit Protection.                                                        ECS shall be in accordance with 27.6.3.2.3 and treated as an
O 27.7.3.1 The protective devices shall be located close to or be                    auxiliary alarm system connected to a protected premises.
                                                                                     27.8.3 Wired or wireless alarm boxes shall be permitted for
   combined with the cable terminals.                                                shared use with an emergency communications system and
                                                                                     shall meet all the requirements of Chapter 27.
E 27.7.3.2 Surge protective devices designed and approved for                        27.8.4 Trouble and alarm indications in the emergency
                                                                                     communications system shall be visually and audibly annunci-
   the purpose shall be installed at a location accessible to quali-                 ated at the communications center, except under fault condi-
                                                                                     tions that prevent such a notification process.
S fied persons and shall be marked with the name of the manu-                        27.8.5 When a fault condition prevents communications
                                                                                     between the ECS and the communications center, an audible
   facturer and model designation.                                                   and visual trouble indication shall be activated at the fire
                                                                                     command center in the protected premises.
U 27.7.3.3 All surge protective devices shall be connected to a                      27.8.6 Communications between the public emergency alarm
                                                                                     reporting system and the emergency communications system
   ground in accordance with NFPA 70.                                                shall be monitored for integrity, and faults shall be annunci-
                                                                                     ated at the communications center, as well as at the fire
L 27.7.3.4 All fuses, fuseholders, and adapters shall be plainly                     command center or the emergency command center or both,
A marked with their ampere rating. All fuses rated over                              in the protected premises.

   2 amperes shall be of the enclosed type.                                                                     Chapter 28 Reserved

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 27.7.3.5 Circuit protection required at the communications              Chapter 29 Single- and Multiple-Station Alarms and
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} center shall be provided in every building that houses commu-                      Household Signaling Systems

   nications center equipment.                                                       29.1 Application.

IV 27.7.3.6 Each metallic conductor entering an emergency

   response facility from partially or entirely aerial lines shall be
   protected by a surge protective device.

D 27.7.3.7 All metallic conductors entering the communications

   center shall be protected by the following devices, in the order

IN named, starting from the exterior circuit:

   (1) Fuse rated at 3 amperes minimum to 7 amperes maxi-
          mum and not less than 2000 volts

R (2) Surge protective device(s)

   (3) Fuse or circuit breaker rated at 12 ampere

O27.7.3.8 In regard to 27.7.3.7, the 12-ampere protection on the
Ftie circuits shall be omitted at subsidiary communications
centers.                                                             29.1.1* The performance, selection, installation, operation,

 27.7.3.9 Open aerial metallic conductors and metallic cable                         and use of single- and multiple-station alarms and household
   shall comply with 27.7.3.9.1 and 27.7.3.9.2.                                      alarm systems shall comply with the requirements of this chap-
                                                                                     ter.
N 27.7.3.9.1 At junction points of open aerial metallic conduc-
   tors and metallic cable, each conductor shall be protected by a                   29.1.2* Alarms shall be installed in all occupancies where
   surge protective device of the weatherproof type.                                 required by other governing laws, codes, or standards.

N 27.7.3.9.2 A connection shall also be between the surge                            29.1.3 The requirements of Chapters 7, 10, 12, 14, 17, 18, 21,
   protective device ground, any metallic sheath, and the messen-                    23, 24, 26, and 27 shall not apply unless otherwise noted.
   ger wire.                                                                         29.1.4* The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to
                                                                                     installations in manufactured homes.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-178                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

29.1.5 This chapter shall apply to the life safety of occupants                 to produce the emergency evacuation signal described in
and not to the protection of property.                                          ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible Emergency
29.2* Purpose.                                                                  Evacuation (E2) and Evacuation Signals with Relocation Instructions
                                                                                (ESRI).

N 29.2.1 Fire-warning equipment for residential occupancies                     N 29.5.3*
   shall provide a reliable means to notify the occupants of the
presence of a threatening fire and the need to escape to a N 29.5.3.1 Carbon monoxide alarms shall have a minimum
place of safety before such escape might be impeded by unten-                   rating of 85 dBA at 10 ft (3 m).
able conditions in the normal path of egress.
                                                                                N 29.5.3.2 Carbon monoxide­warning equipment to be installed
N 29.2.2 Carbon monoxide warning equipment for residential                      in residential occupancies shall produce the T-4 signal. After
occupancies shall provide a reliable means to notify the occu-                  the initial 4 minutes of alarm, the 5-second "off" time of the
   pants of the presence of carbon monoxide levels that constitute                 alarm signal shall be permitted to be changed to 60 seconds
   a potential life safety risk and the need for action as a conse-                ± 10 percent.
   quence of those levels.
                                                                                   29.5.4 The audible emergency evacuation signal shall be
Y 29.3 Basic Requirements.                                                         permitted to be used for other devices as long as the desired
L 29.3.1 All devices, combinations of devices, and equipment to                    response is immediate evacuation.

   be installed in conformity with this chapter shall be approved                29.5.5* Fire-warning equipment producing the audible emer-
                                                                                   gency evacuation signal shall be permitted to incorporate voice
N or listed for the purposes for which they are intended.                          notification under either or both of the following conditions:
O 29.3.2 Fire- and carbon monoxide (CO)­warning equipment                          (1) Where the voice message is contained completely within
                                                                                           the 1.5-second pause period of the audible emergency
   shall be installed in accordance with the listing and manufac-                          evacuation signal
   turer's published instructions.                                                 (2) Where the voice message complies with 29.5.5(2)(a) and
                                                                                           29.5.5(2)(b) as follows:
E  29.3.3* The installation of smoke, heat, fire, or carbon                                (a) The voice message is first preceded by a minimum
S monoxide (CO) alarms or systems, or combinations of these,                                      of eight cycles of the audible emergency evacuation
                                                                                                  signal.
   shall comply with the requirements of this chapter and shall                            (b) The voice message periodically interrupts the signal
                                                                                                  for no longer than 10 seconds, followed by a mini-
U satisfy the minimum requirements for number and location of                                     mum of two cycles of the audible emergency evacua-
                                                                                                  tion signal between each voice message. The initial
   alarms or detectors by one of the following arrangements:                                      eight-cycle period shall not be required to be repea-
                                                                                                  ted.
L (1) The required minimum number and location of detec-
           tion devices shall be satisfied (independently) through              N 29.5.6* Carbon monoxide­warning equipment producing the
  A the installation of alarms. The installation of additional                     audible notification signal shall be permitted to incorporate
           alarms shall be permitted. The installation of additional               voice notification under either or both of the following:
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U system-based detectors, including partial or complete         (1) Where the voice message is contained completely within
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} duplication of the alarms satisfying the required mini-           the 5-second pause period of the audible notification
  ID mum, shall be permitted.                                                              signal
   (2) The required minimum number and location of detec-                          (2) Where the voice message complies with 29.5.6(2)(a) and
                                                                                           29.5.6(2)(b) as follows:
  IV tion devices shall be satisfied (independently) through                               (a) The voice message is first preceded by a minimum
                                                                                                  of 6 cycles of the audible notification signal.
           the installation of system detectors. The installation of                       (b) The voice message periodically interrupts the signal
           additional detectors shall be permitted. The installation                              for no longer than 10 seconds, followed by a mini-
                                                                                                  mum of two cycles of the audible notification signal
  D of additional alarms, including partial or complete dupli-                                    between each voice message. The initial 6-cycle
                                                                                                  period shall not be required to be repeated.
           cation of the detectors satisfying the required minimum,

  IN shall be permitted.

   29.3.4 Supplementary functions, including the extension of
   an alarm beyond the residential occupancy, shall be permitted

R and shall not interfere with the performance requirements of

   this chapter.

O N 29.4 Remote Annunciation. Remote annunciation from
Fsingle- and multiple-station alarms shall be permitted, provided

   signals at the remote annunciator properly identify the hazard.

N 29.5 Notification.                                                       29.5.7 All audible notification signals installed shall meet the
   29.5.1* Unless otherwise permitted by 29.5.2, fire-warning              performance requirements of 18.4.4, 18.4.6.1, 18.4.6.2, and
   equipment to be installed in residential occupancies shall              29.5.10.
   produce the audible emergency evacuation signal described in          29.5.8* Where visual appliances are provided, they shall meet
   ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible Emergency            the requirements of Section 18.5.
   Evacuation (E2) and Evacuation Signals with Relocation Instructions  N 29.5.9 Since hearing deficits are often not apparent, the
   (ESRI), whenever the intended response is to evacuate the               responsibility for advising the appropriate person(s) of the
   building.                                                               existence of this deficit shall be that of the party with hearing
                                                                           loss.
N 29.5.2 Where mechanically powered single-station heat alarms
   are used as supplementary devices, unless required by applica-
   ble laws, codes, or standards, such devices shall not be required

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                      SINGLE- AND MULTIPLE-STATION ALARMS AND HOUSEHOLD SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                        72-179

29.5.10 Notification appliances provided in sleeping rooms                                       N 29.7* Carbon Monoxide Detection. The warning functions
and guest rooms for those with hearing loss shall comply with                                       intended in this standard shall be performed by single or
29.5.10.1 and 29.5.10.2, as applicable.                                                             multiple-station alarms or by detectors connected to a control
                                                                                                 unit and associated equipment.
29.5.10.1* Mild to Severe Hearing Loss. Notification applian-
ces provided for those with mild to severe hearing loss shall N 29.7.1 Required Detection.
comply with the following:
                                                                                                 N 29.7.1.1* Where required by other governing laws, codes, or
(1) An audible notification appliance producing a low                                            standards for a specific type of occupancy, listed carbon
frequency alarm signal shall be installed in the following
situations:                                                                                      monoxide alarms or detectors shall be installed as follows:
(a) Where required by governing laws, codes, or stand-                                           (1) Outside of each separate dwelling unit sleeping area,

       ards for people with hearing loss                                                                within 21 ft (6.4 m) of any door to a sleeping room, with
                                                                                                        the distance measured along a path of travel
          (b) Where provided voluntarily for those with hearing                                     (2) On every occupiable level of a dwelling unit, including
                  loss                                                                                     basements, excluding attics and crawl spaces

   (2)* The low frequency alarm signal output shall comply with                                     (3) In all sleeping rooms and guest rooms containing instal-
                                                                                                           led fuel-burning appliances
  Y the following:
  L (a) The waveform shall have a fundamental frequency                                             (4) Other locations where required by applicable laws, codes,
                                                                                                           or standards
                  of 520 Hz ± 10 percent.
                                                                                                 N 29.7.1.2* Each alarm or detector shall be located on the wall,
  N (b) The minimum sound level at the pillow shall be 75                                           ceiling, or other location as specified in the manufacturer's
                  dBA, or 15 dB above the average ambient sound                                     published instructions that accompany the unit.
   O level, or 5 dB above the maximum sound level
                  having a duration of at least 60 seconds, whichever                            N 29.7.2 Carbon Monoxide Alarm Interconnection. Unless
                  is greater.                                                                       exempted by applicable laws, codes, or standards, carbon
                                                                                                    monoxide alarms used to provide a warning function, and
E 29.5.10.2* Moderately Severe to Profound Hearing Loss.                                            where two or more alarms are installed within a dwelling unit,
S Visual notification appliances in accordance with the require-                                    suite of rooms, or similar area, shall be arranged so that the
                                                                                                    operation of any carbon monoxide alarm causes all carbon
   ments of 18.5.5.8 and tactile notification appliances in accord-                                 monoxide alarms within these locations to sound.
                                                                                                    29.8 Detection and Notification. The use of fire alarm system
U ance with the requirements of Section 18.10 shall be required                                     smoke detectors and notification appliances shall be permitted
                                                                                                    to meet the fire-warning requirements for smoke alarms speci-
   for those with moderately severe to profound hearing loss in                                     fied in 29.8.1.
                                                                                                    29.8.1* Required Smoke Detection.
L the following situations:                                                                         29.8.1.1* Where required by other governing laws, codes, or
                                                                                                    standards for a specific type of occupancy, listed single- and
   (1)* Where required by governing laws, codes, or standards                                       multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed as follows:
                                                                                                    (1)* In all sleeping rooms and guest rooms
  A for people with hearing loss                                                                    (2)* Outside of each separate dwelling unit sleeping area,
                                                                                                           within 21 ft (6.4 m) of any door to a sleeping room, with
   (2) Where provided voluntarily for those with hearing loss                                              the distance measured along a path of travel
                                                                                                    (3) On every level of a dwelling unit, including basements
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 29.5.11 Signals from notification appliances shall not be   (4) On every level of a residential board and care occupancy
ID required to be synchronized.                                                                            (small facility), including basements and excluding crawl
                                                                                                           spaces and unfinished attics
   29.6 Assumptions.                                                                                (5)* In the living area(s) of a guest suite
                                                                                                    (6) In the living area(s) of a residential board and care occu-
IV 29.6.1* Occupants.                                                                                      pancy (small facility)

N 29.6.1.1 The requirements of this chapter shall assume that

D occupants are capable of self-rescue.
IN N 29.6.1.2 Occupants intimate with the ignition of a fire shall

   not be assumed to be protected by the requirements of this
   chapter.

R 29.6.2* Escape Route.
O29.6.2.1 The requirements of this chapter shall assume that

   the occupants have an escape plan.

F29.6.2.2 An escape route shall be assumed to be available to
occupants and to be unobstructed prior to the fire or carbon  29.8.1.2 Where the area addressed in 29.8.1.1(2) is separated
monoxide (CO) event.                                                                             from the adjacent living areas by a door, a smoke alarm shall be
                                                                                                 installed in the area between the door and the sleeping rooms,
29.6.2.3* The escape route shall be along the normal path of                                     and additional alarms shall be installed on the living area side
egress for the occupancy.                                                                        of the door as specified by 29.8.1.1 and 29.8.1.3.

29.6.3* Equipment. The performance of fire- and carbon                                           29.8.1.3 In addition to the requirements of 29.8.1.1(1)
monoxide (CO)­warning equipment discussed in this chapter                                        through 29.8.1.1(3), where the interior floor area for a given
shall depend on such equipment being properly selected,                                          level of a dwelling unit, excluding garage areas, is greater than
installed, operated, tested, and maintained in accordance with                                   1000 ft2 (93 m2), smoke alarms shall be installed per 29.8.1.3.1
the provisions of this Code and with the manufacturer's                                          and 29.8.1.3.2.
published instructions provided with the equipment.

                                                                 29.8.1.3.1* All points on the ceiling shall have a smoke alarm
                                                                   within a distance of 30 ft (9.1 m) travel distance or shall have

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-180                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

an equivalent of one smoke alarm per 500 ft2 (46 m2) of floor N 29.9.2 Primary Power Source Nonreplaceable Primary Battery.
area.                                                                 If smoke, heat, or carbon monoxide alarms are powered by a
                                                                      nonrechargeable, nonreplaceable primary battery, the battery
29.8.1.3.2 Where dwelling units include great rooms or vaul-          shall be monitored to ensure the following conditions are met:
ted/cathedral ceilings extending over multiple floors, smoke          (1) All smoke alarm power requirements are met for at least
alarms located on the upper floor that are intended to protect
the aforementioned area shall be permitted to be considered                  10 years of battery life, including required periodic test-
as part of the lower floor(s) protection scheme used to meet                 ing.
the requirements of 29.8.1.3.1.                                       (2) All carbon monoxide alarm power requirements are met
                                                                             for the service life of the sensor life specified by the
29.8.2 Required Occupant Notification.                                manufacturer's published instructions, not to exceed 10

   29.8.2.1 Fire-warning equipment used to provide required or                   years.
   optional detection shall produce audible fire alarm signals that      (3) A distinctive audible trouble signal occurs before the
   comply with 29.8.2.1.1 or 29.8.2.1.2.
   29.8.2.1.1* Interconnected Smoke and Heat Alarms. For                         battery is incapable of operating the device(s) for alarm
                                                                                 purposes.
Y other than mechanically powered single-station heat alarms             (4) At the battery voltage at which a trouble signal is
L and unless exempted by applicable laws, codes, or standards,                   obtained, the unit is capable of producing a fire alarm
                                                                                 signal for at least 4 minutes, or a carbon monoxide alarm
   smoke or heat alarms used to provide a fire-warning function,                 signal for at least 12 continuous hours in accordance with
                                                                                 29.5.3, followed by not less than 7 days of trouble signal
N and where two or more alarms are installed within a dwelling                   operation.
                                                                         (5) The audible trouble signal is produced at least once every
   unit, suite of rooms, or similar area, shall be arranged so that              minute for 7 consecutive days.
                                                                         (6) The trouble signal is allowed to be silenced for up to
O the operation of any smoke or heat alarm causes all alarms                     12 hours.
                                                                         (7) A visible "power on" indicator is provided.
   within these locations to sound.
                                                                       29.9.3 Household Fire and Carbon Monoxide Alarm Systems.
E 29.8.2.1.2 Household Fire Alarm System. Where a household              Power for household alarm systems shall comply with the
                                                                         following requirements:
   fire alarm system is used to provide a fire-warning function,         (1) Household fire and carbon monoxide alarm systems shall
                                                                                 have two independent power sources consisting of a
S notification appliances shall be installed to meet the perform-                primary source that uses commercial light and power and
                                                                                 a secondary source that consists of a rechargeable battery.
   ance requirements of 29.5.7.                                          (2) The secondary source shall be capable of operating the
                                                                                 household alarm system for at least 24 hours in the
U  29.8.2.2* Unless otherwise permitted by the authority having                  normal condition, followed by 4 minutes of fire alarm or
   jurisdiction, audible fire alarm signals shall sound only in an               12 hours of carbon monoxide alarm.
L individual dwelling unit, suite of rooms, or similar area and                  (a) Effective January 1, 2022, the secondary power
   shall not be arranged to operate fire-warning equipment or fire                      source of the household carbon monoxide system
A alarm systems outside these locations.                                                shall be capable of operating the system for at least
                                                                                        12 hours of alarm in accordance with 29.5.3.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U N 29.8.2.3 Remote annunciation shall be permitted.           (b) The secondary power source of a household carbon
                                                                                        monoxide system shall not be required to operate
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 29.9 Power Supplies.                                              the system for 12 hours of alarm if the power source
                                                                                        of carbon monoxide detectors and carbon monox-
ID  29.9.1 Smoke and Heat and Carbon Monoxide Alarms.                                   ide audible notification appliances incorporating a
   Smoke and heat and carbon monoxide alarms shall meet the                             low-power radio (wireless) transmitter/transceiver is
IV requirements of 29.8.2.1.1 and be powered by one of the                              capable of providing at least 24 hours in the normal
   following means:                                                                     condition, followed by 12 hours of alarm.
D (1) A commercial light and power source along with a secon-            (3) The secondary power source shall be supervised and shall
           dary power source that is capable of operating the device
  IN for at least 7 days in the normal condition, followed by
           4 minutes of alarm. Carbon monoxide alarms shall have
           sufficient capacity to operate the alarm signal(s) for at
  R least 12 continuous hours.
   (2) If a commercial light and power source is not normally
           available, a dependable, noncommercial ac power source
  Oalong with a secondary power source that is capable of
 Foperating the device for at least 7 days in the normal
       condition, followed by 4 minutes of alarm for smoke and        cause a distinctive audible and visible trouble signal upon
                                                                      removal or disconnection of a battery or a low-battery
       heat alarms or 12 hours of alarm for carbon monoxide           condition.
       alarms.
(3) A nonrechargeable, nonreplaceable primary battery that            (4) A rechargeable battery used as a secondary power source
                                                                      shall meet the following criteria:
       meets the requirements of 29.9.2.
(4) If a battery primary power supply is specifically permitted,
       a battery meeting the requirements of 29.9.7 or the            (a) Be automatically recharged by an ac circuit of the
       requirements of 29.9.2.                                               commercial light and power source

(5) A suitable spring-wound mechanism for the nonelectrical           (b) Be recharged within 48 hours
       portion of a listed single-station alarm with a visible indi-  (c) Provide a distinctive audible trouble signal before
       cation to show that sufficient operating power is not avail-
       able.                                                                 the battery is incapable of operating the device(s)
                                                                             for alarm purposes

2019 Edition    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                         SINGLE- AND MULTIPLE-STATION ALARMS AND HOUSEHOLD SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                      72-181

(5) Low-power wireless systems shall comply with the                                         (e) Produce an audible trouble signal at least once
        performance criteria of Section 23.16, except as modified                            every minute for 7 consecutive days
        by 29.10.8.1.1.                                                                      (4) Where required by law for disposal reasons, rechargeable
                                                                                             batteries shall be removable.
29.9.4 AC Primary Power Source. The ac power source speci-
fied in 29.9.1 and 29.9.3 shall comply with the following condi-                             29.9.6 Visual Notification Appliance (with Single- or Multiple-
tions:                                                                                       Station Alarm). If a visual notification appliance is used in
                                                                                             conjunction with a single- or multiple-station alarm for compli-
(1) A visible "power on" indicator shall be provided.                                        ance with 29.5.8, the notification appliance shall not be
(2) All electrical systems designed to be installed by other                                 required to be supplied with a secondary power source.

       than a qualified electrician shall be powered from a
        source not in excess of 30 volts that meets the require-  29.9.7 Primary Replaceable Battery, Sole Power Source
        ments for power-limited fire alarm circuits as defined in                            (Nonrechargeable). If alarms are powered solely by a replacea-
          Article 760 of NFPA 70.
   (3)* A restraining means shall be used at the plug-in of any                                 ble primary battery, the battery shall be monitored to ensure
                                                                                                the following conditions are met:
          cord-connected installation, unless the unit utilizes a                               (1) All power requirements are met for at least 1 year of

  Y secondary (standby) power source meeting the require-                                               battery life, including weekly required periodic testing.
                                                                                                (2) A distinctive audible trouble signal before the battery is
          ments of Section 29.6 and loss of the ac primary power
                                                                                                        incapable of operating the device(s) for alarm purposes.
  L source results in annunciation of an audible trouble                                        (3) For a system-connected unit employing a lock-in alarm

          signal meeting 29.7.6.4.                                                                      feature, automatic transfer is provided from alarm to a
                                                                                                        trouble condition when the unit has insufficient power to
N (4) AC primary (main) power shall be supplied either from a                                           support an alarm condition.
          dedicated branch circuit or the unswitched portion of a                               (4) At the battery voltage at which a trouble signal is
  O branch circuit also used for power and lighting.                                                    obtained, the unit is capable of producing a fire alarm
   (5) Operation of a switch (other than a circuit breaker) shall                                       signal for at least 4 minutes or a carbon monoxide alarm
                                                                                                        signal for at least 12 continuous hours, followed by not
          not cause loss of primary (main) power. Alarms powered                                        less than 7 days of trouble signal operation.
                                                                                                (5) The audible trouble signal is produced at least once every
  E by branch circuits protected by arc-fault circuit-                                                  minute for 7 consecutive days.
  S interrupters (AFCI) or ground-fault circuit-interrupters                                    (6) Acceptable replacement batteries are clearly identified by
                                                                                                        the manufacturer's name and model number on the unit
          (GFCI) shall have a secondary power source.                                                   near the battery compartment.
                                                                                                (7) A noticeable, visible indication is displayed when a
U (6) Neither loss nor restoration of primary (main) power                                              primary battery is removed from the unit.
          shall cause an alarm signal that exceeds 2 seconds.
   (7) Where a secondary (standby) battery is provided, the                                   29.9.8 Primary Power Source (Rechargeable Battery). If
                                                                                                alarms are powered by a rechargeable battery, the following
  L primary (main) power supply shall be of sufficient                                          conditions shall be met:
                                                                                                (1) The battery shall, with proper charging, be able to power
          capacity to operate the system under all conditions of                                        the alarm for a life of 1 year.
                                                                                                (2) The battery shall be automatically recharged by a circuit
  A loading with any secondary (standby) battery disconnec-                                             of the commercial light and power source.
                                                                                                (3) The battery shall be recharged within 4 hours where
          ted or fully discharged.                                                                      power is provided from a circuit that can be switched on
                                                                                                        or off by means other than a circuit breaker or within
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 29.9.5 Secondary (Standby) Power Source. Where alarms           48 hours where power is provided from a circuit that
ID include a battery that is used as a secondary power source, the                                      cannot be switched on or off by means other than a
                                                                                                        circuit breaker.
   following conditions shall be met:                                                           (4) A distinctive audible trouble signal shall sound before the
                                                                                                        battery is incapable of operating the device(s) for alarm
IV (1) The secondary power source shall be supervised and shall
          cause a distinctive audible or visible trouble signal upon
          removal or disconnection of a battery or a low-battery
  D condition.
   (2) Acceptable replacement batteries shall be clearly identi-

  IN fied by the manufacturer's name and model number on

          the unit near the battery compartment.
   (3) A rechargeable battery used as a secondary power source

  R shall meet the following criteria:

          (a) Be automatically recharged by the primary power

 Osource
F (b) Be recharged within 4 hours where power is provi-
        ded from a circuit that can be switched on or off by                                 purposes.
        means other than a circuit breaker, or within
        48 hours where power is provided from a circuit                                      (5) For a unit employing a lock-in alarm feature, automatic
                                                                                             transfer shall be provided from alarm to a trouble condi-
               that cannot be switched on or off by means other                                     tion.
               than a circuit breaker                                                        (6) At the battery condition at which a trouble signal is
        (c) Provide a distinctive audible trouble signal before
               the battery is incapable of operating the device(s)                                  obtained, the unit shall be capable of producing a fire
        for alarm purposes                                                                          alarm signal for at least 4 minutes or a carbon monoxide
                                                                                             alarm signal for 12 continuous hours, followed by not less
        (d) At the battery condition at which a trouble signal is                                   than 7 days of trouble signal operation.
               obtained, be capable of producing a fire alarm                                (7) The audible trouble signal shall be produced at least
               signal for at least 4 minutes or the carbon monox-
        ide signal for 12 continuous hours, followed by not                                         once every minute for 7 consecutive days.
                                                                                             (8) The battery shall be nonremoveable, or a noticeable and
        less than 7 days of trouble signal operation                                         visible indication shall be displayed when the battery is

                                                                                             removed from the unit.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-182        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 29.9.9 Secondary (Standby) Non-Battery Power Source.                           29.10.4* Heat Detectors and Heat Alarms.
Where alarms include a secondary power source (non-battery),
the following conditions shall be met:                                          29.10.4.1 Each heat detector and heat alarm, including a heat
                                                                                detector or heat alarm integrally mounted on a smoke detector
(1) The secondary power source shall be supervised and shall                    or smoke alarm, shall detect abnormally high temperature or
       cause a distinctive audible or visible trouble signal upon
       depletion or failure.                                                    rate-of-temperature rise, and all such detectors shall be listed
(2) A distinctive audible trouble signal shall be provided                      for not less than 50 ft (15.2 m) spacing.
       before the power source is incapable of operating the                    29.10.4.2* Fixed-temperature detectors or alarms shall have a
       device(s) for alarm purposes.                                            temperature rating at least 25ºF (14ºC) above the normal ambi-
                                                                                ent temperature and shall not be rated 50ºF (28ºC) higher
(3) At a power source condition at which a trouble signal is                    than the maximum anticipated ambient temperature in the
obtained, the power source shall be capable of producing                        room or space where installed.
a fire alarm signal for at least 4 minutes or a carbon
          monoxide alarm signal for at least 12 continuous hours,
          followed by not less than 7 days of trouble signal opera-                29.10.5 Operability. Single- and multiple-station alarms,
          tion.                                                                    including heat alarms, shall be provided with a convenient
                                                                                   means for testing its operability by the occupant, system owner,
Y (4) The audible trouble signal shall be produced at least                        or other responsible parties.
 L once every minute for 7 consecutive days.                                       29.10.6 Control Unit.
                                                                                 29.10.6.1 The control unit shall be automatically restoring
   (5) A rechargeable secondary power source shall meet the                        upon restoration of electrical power.
                                                                                 29.10.6.2* The control unit shall be of a type that "locks in"
 N following criteria:                                                             on an alarm condition.
                                                                                N 29.10.6.3 Smoke detection circuits shall not be required to
          (a) Be automatically recharged                                           lock in.
                                                                                   29.10.6.4 If a reset switch is provided, it shall be of a self-
 O (b) Be recharged within 4 hours where power is provi-                           restoring (momentary operation) type.
                  ded from a circuit that can be switched on or off by             29.10.6.5 A means for silencing the trouble notification appli-
                  means other than a circuit breaker or within                     ance(s) shall be permitted only if the following conditions are
   E 48 hours where power is provided from a circuit                               satisfied:
                  that cannot be switched on or off by means other                 (1) The means is key-operated or located within a locked
   S than a circuit breaker
                                                                                           enclosure, or arranged to provide equivalent protection
U 29.10 Equipment Performance.                                                             against unauthorized use.
                                                                                   (2) The means transfers the trouble indication to an identi-
   29.10.1 Self-Diagnostic. Any failure of any nonreliable or                              fied lamp or other acceptable visible indicator, and the
                                                                                           visible indication persists until the trouble condition has
L short-life component that renders the detector inoperable shall                          been corrected.
                                                                                 29.10.6.6 A means for turning off actuated alarm notification
   result in a trouble signal or otherwise be apparent to the occu-                appliances shall be permitted only if the following conditions
                                                                                   are satisfied:
A pant of the living unit without the need for test.                               (1) The means is key-operated or located within a locked
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 29.10.2* Smoke Alarms, System Smoke Detectors, and Other               cabinet or arranged to provide equivalent protection
                                                                                           against unauthorized use.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Non-Heat Fire Detectors. Each device shall detect abnormal   (2) The means includes the provision of a visible alarm
                                                                                           silence indication.
ID quantities of smoke or applicable fire signature, shall operate                 (3) The silenced position is indicated by a distinctive signal.
                                                                                   (4) The switch is a momentary or self-restoring switch.
   in the normal environmental conditions, and shall be in
   compliance with applicable standards such as ANSI/UL 268,

IV Standard for Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm Systems, or ANSI/

   UL 217, Standard for Single and Multiple Station Smoke Alarms.

D N· 29.10.3 Carbon Monoxide Alarms and Detectors.
IN N 29.10.3.1* Each carbon monoxide alarm shall be in compli-

   ance with ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for Single and Multiple Station
   Carbon Monoxide Alarms.

R N 29.10.3.2 Each carbon monoxide detector shall be in compli-
   ance with ANSI/UL 2075, Standard for Gas and Vapor Detectors
O and Sensors, and shall meet the sensitivity testing and alarm
   thresholds of ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for Single and Multiple
FStation Carbon Monoxide Alarms.
                                                                                29.10.6.7 Initiating devices and notification appliances
N 29.10.3.3 All signals produced from periodic testing of carbon                connected to household control units shall be monitored for
   monoxide alarms or detectors shall be identical to the signal                integrity so that the occurrence of a single open or single
   produced when the unit is in alarm.                                          ground fault in the interconnection, which prevents normal

N 29.10.3.4 Trouble signals shall be distinctive from alarm                     operation of the interconnected devices, is indicated by a
   signals.                                                                     distinctive trouble signal.

N 29.10.3.5 Unless otherwise recommended by the manufactur-                     29.10.6.8 The control unit shall be in compliance with appli-
   er's published instructions, carbon monoxide alarms and                      cable standards such as ANSI/UL 985, Standard for Household
   detectors shall be replaced when they fail to respond to tests.              Fire Warning System Units; ANSI/UL 1730, Standard for Smoke
                                                                                Detector Monitors and Accessories for Individual Living Units of
                                                                                Multifamily Residences and Hotel/Motel Rooms; or ANSI/UL 864,
                                                                                Standard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm Systems.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

SINGLE- AND MULTIPLE-STATION ALARMS AND HOUSEHOLD SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                                          72-183

29.10.6.9 Any data exchange between the control unit and          29.10.8 Wireless Devices.
separate independent devices via remote access shall not
compromise the integrity of the fire alarm system.                29.10.8.1 Wireless Systems. Household fire alarm systems
                                                                  utilizing low-power wireless transmission of signals within the
 29.10.6.10 Remote resetting and silencing of a control unit      protected dwelling unit shall comply with the requirements of
from other than the protected premises shall be inhibited for a   Section 23.16, except as modified by 29.10.8.1.1.
minimum of 4 minutes from the initial activation of the fire
alarm signal.                                                     29.10.8.1.1 The requirements of 23.16.4.2 shall not apply
                                                                  where periodic monitoring for integrity complies with all of the
N 29.10.6.11 Each electrical carbon monoxide detection system     following:
shall have an integral test means to allow testing of the system
operation.                                                        (1) Each low-power transmitter/transceiver shall transmit
                                                                         check-in signals at intervals not exceeding 80 minutes.
                                                                  (2) Any transmission interruption between a low-power radio
29.10.7 Combination System.
   29.10.7.1 If designed and installed to perform additional                 transmitter/transceiver and the receiver/fire alarm
   functions, fire- and carbon monoxide­warning equipment shall              control unit exceeding 4 hours shall cause a latching
                                                                             trouble signal at the household fire alarm control unit/
Y operate reliably and without compromise to its primary func-               operator interface.
L tions.                                                             (3) Low-power transmitters/transceivers shall be limited to
                                                                             serving a single initiating device; however, a single initiat-
   29.10.7.2 Fire signals shall take precedence over any other               ing device shall be permitted to send multiple types of
                                                                             alarm signals.
N signal or functions, even if a non-fire signal is actuated first.  (4) Redundant retransmission devices (repeaters) shall be
O 29.10.7.3 Fire and carbon monoxide signals shall be distinc-               provided such that disconnecting or failure of any single
                                                                             retransmission device (repeater) does not interrupt
   tive so that a fire or carbon monoxide signal can be distin-              communications between any low-power transmitter/
   guished from all other signals.                                           transceiver and the receiver/fire alarm control unit.
                                                                     29.10.8.2 Nonsupervised Wireless Interconnected Alarms.
E N 29.10.7.4 The use of a common audible notification appliance   29.10.8.2.1* To ensure adequate transmission and reception
S shall be permitted as long as distinctive signals are generated.   capability, nonsupervised, low-power wireless alarms shall be
                                                                     capable of reliably communicating at a distance of 100 ft
   29.10.7.5 Faults in other systems or components shall not         (30.5 m) indoors as tested to an equivalent open area test
                                                                     distance, DEOAT, between two devices in accordance with Equa-
U affect the operation of the fire alarm system.                     tions 29.10.8.2.1a and 29.10.8.2.1b.
L 29.10.7.6 Where common wiring is employed for a combina-
                                                                                                                             [29.10.8.2.1a]
   tion system, the equipment for other than the fire and carbon
                                                                              D              =  30.5     ×         10  Lb  
A monoxide alarm system shall be connected to the common                         EOAT                                  40

   wiring of the system so that short circuits, open circuits,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U grounds, or any fault in this equipment or interconnection

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} between this equipment and the fire and carbon monoxide

ID alarm system wiring does not interfere with the supervision of

   the fire and carbon monoxide alarm system or prevent alarm
   or trouble signal operation.

IV 29.10.7.7 Audible notification signals shall be provided in the

   following priority order:

D (1) Fire alarm
IN (2) Carbon monoxide

   (3) Other
 29.10.7.8* Installations that include the connection of single-

R or multiple-station alarms with other input or output devices

   shall be permitted.

O N 29.10.7.8.1 An open, ground fault, or short circuit of the
Fwiring connecting input or output devices to the single- or
                                                                  where:
                                                                  Lb = the building attenuation factor

                                                                                                                             [29.10.8.2.1b]

                                                                                   L     =   4  ×  L     + 2× Lf
                                                                                      b               w

multiple-station alarms shall not prevent operation of each       where:
individual alarm.                                                 Lw = attenuation value of a wall

                                                                      = 2 × L1 + L2
                                                                  Lf = attenuation value of a floor
                                                                     = L1 + L2 + L3 + L4
                                                                  L1 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 1/2 in.
29.10.7.8.2 Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be     (13 mm) drywall
permitted to be connected to system control equipment loca-
ted within the dwelling unit.                                     L2 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 11/2 in.
                                                                  (38 mm) structural lumber
29.10.7.8.3 When connected, the actuation of a single- or         L3 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 3/4 in.
multiple-station smoke alarm shall initiate an alarm signal at          (19 mm) plywood
the system control equipment located within the dwelling unit.
                                                                  L4 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 1/2 in.
                                                                  (13 mm) glass/tile floor
29.10.7.8.4 A sprinkler waterflow alarm initiating device shall
be permitted to be connected to the multiple-station alarms or
household fire alarm system to actuate an alarm signal.           29.10.8.2.2 Fire alarm signals shall have priority over all other
                                                                  signals.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-184        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

29.10.8.2.3 The maximum allowable response delay from acti-                     29.10.9.10.2 Where a DACT is used, the DACT test signals
vation of an initiating device to receipt and alarm/display by                  shall be transmitted at least monthly.
the receiver/control unit shall be 20 seconds.                                  29.10.9.10.3 Where a communication or transmission means
29.10.8.2.4* Wireless interconnected smoke alarms (in receive                   other than DACT is used, only a single communication tech-
mode) shall remain in alarm as long as the originating unit                     nology and path shall be required to serve the protected prem-
(transmitter) remains in alarm.                                                 ises.

29.10.8.2.5 The occurrence of any single fault that disables a                  29.10.9.10.4 Where a communication or transmission means
transceiver shall not prevent other transceivers in the system                  other than DACT is used, all equipment necessary to transmit
from operating.                                                                 an alarm signal shall be provided with a minimum of 24 hours
29.10.9 Supervising Stations.                                                   of secondary power capacity and shall report a trouble condi-
                                                                                tion indicating loss of primary power.

 29.10.9.1* Household alarm systems shall be permitted to be                       29.10.9.10.5 Failure of the communication path referenced in
   supervised by a supervising station or by a public emergency                    29.10.9.10.3 shall be annunciated at the supervising station and
   alarm reporting system.                                                         at the protected premises within not more than 7 days of the
                                                                                   failure.
Y N 29.10.9.1.1 Transmission of signals from single- and multiple-                 29.10.9.10.6 A dedicated cellular telephone connection shall
L station alarms to a constantly attended supervising station or                   be permitted to be used as a single means to transmit alarms to
                                                                                   a constantly attended remote monitoring location.
   public emergency alarm reporting system shall be processed by                   29.11 Installation.
                                                                                   29.11.1 General.
N a household alarm system.                                                        29.11.1.1 All equipment shall be installed in accordance with
O N 29.10.9.1.2 Where off-premises supervision is provided, the                    the manufacturer's published instructions and applicable elec-
                                                                                   trical standards.
   system shall transmit at least a general alarm signal.                          29.11.1.2 All devices shall be so located and mounted that
                                                                                   accidental operation is not caused by jarring or vibration.
E 29.10.9.1.3 Transmission of trouble signals and supervisory                    29.11.1.3 All equipment shall be mounted so as to be suppor-
                                                                                   ted independently of its attachment to wires.
   signals shall be permitted.                                                   29.11.1.4 The supplier or installing contractor shall provide
                                                                                   the system owner or other responsible parties with the follow-
S N 29.10.9.2* Supervising station systems and services shall meet                 ing:
   the requirements of Chapter 26 for the type of system and type                  (1) An instruction booklet illustrating typical installation
U of service selected, except as modified by 29.10.9.5 through
   29.10.9.10.                                                                             layouts
                                                                                   (2) Instruction charts describing the operation, method, and
L N 29.10.9.3 Public emergency alarm reporting systems shall
A meet the requirements of Chapter 27, except as modified by                               frequency of testing and maintenance of the warning
                                                                                           equipment
   29.10.9.7 through 29.10.9.10.                                                   (3) Printed information for establishing an emergency evacu-
                                                                                           ation plan
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U N 29.10.9.4 Public emergency alarm reporting systems shall     (4) Printed information to inform system owners where they
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} transmit signals to an emergency services communications           can obtain repair or replacement service, and where and
                                                                                           how parts requiring regular replacement, such as batter-
   system meeting the requirements of NFPA 1221.                                           ies or bulbs, can be obtained within 2 weeks
                                                                                   (5) Information noting both of the following:
IV 29.10.9.5 Supervising station systems shall not be required to                          (a) Unless otherwise recommended by the manufactur-

   comply with requirements for indication of central station serv-                               er's published instructions, smoke alarms shall be
   ice in 26.3.4.                                                                                 replaced when they fail to respond to tests.

D N 29.10.9.6 Alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals shall be
   permitted to be received at a listed central supervising station.
IN 29.10.9.7* Alarm signals shall be permitted to be verified
   prior to reporting them to the fire service, provided that the
   verification process does not delay the reporting by more than
R 90 seconds.
O 29.10.9.8 Household fire alarm systems shall be programmed
   by the manufacturer to generate at least a monthly test of the
Fcommunication or transmission means.
                                                                                       (b) Smoke alarms shall not remain in service longer
   29.10.9.9 The activation of a keypad fire alarm signal shall                               than 10 years from the date of manufacture unless
   require a manual operation of two simultaneous or sequential                               otherwise provided by manufacturer's published
   operations.                                                                                instructions.
N 29.10.9.10 Communications methods shall comply with
   29.10.9.10.1 through 29.10.9.10.6.                                           (6) The instructions required in 29.14.2 and 29.14.4
                                                                                29.11.2 Interconnection of Multiple-Station Alarms.
29.10.9.10.1 Where a digital alarm communicator transmitter
(DACT) is used, the DACT serving the protected premises shall  29.11.2.1* The interconnection of alarms shall comply with
only require a single telephone line and shall only require a                   the following:

call to a single digital alarm communicator receiver (DACR)                     (1) Alarms shall not be interconnected in numbers that
number.
                                                                                exceed the manufacturer's published instructions.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                 SINGLE- AND MULTIPLE-STATION ALARMS AND HOUSEHOLD SIGNALING SYSTEMS                                             72-185

(2) In no case shall more than 18 initiating devices be inter-                                     listed for installation in close proximity to cooking appli-
connected (of which 12 can be smoke alarms) where the                                              ances. Smoke alarms and smoke detectors installed
interconnecting means is not supervised.                                                           between 10 ft (3.0 m) and 20 ft (6.1 m) along a horizon-
(3) In no case shall more than 64 initiating devices be inter-                                     tal flow path from a stationary or fixed cooking appli-
connected (of which 42 can be smoke alarms) where the                                              ance shall be equipped with an alarm-silencing means or
interconnecting means is supervised.                                                               use photoelectric detection.
(4) Alarms of different manufacturers shall not be intercon-                                       (5) Smoke alarms or smoke detectors that use photoelectric
nected unless listed as being compatible with the specific                                         detection shall be permitted for installation at a radial
model.                                                                                             distance greater than 6 ft (1.8 m) from any stationary or
(5) When alarms of different types are interconnected, all                                         fixed cooking appliance when both of the following
interconnected alarms shall produce the appropriate                                                conditions are met:
           audible response for the phenomena being detected or
           remain silent.                                                                                  (a) The kitchen or cooking area and adjacent spaces
   29.11.2.2 A single fault on the interconnecting means                                                          have no clear interior partitions or headers.
   between multiple-station alarms shall not prevent single-station
                                                                                                           (b) The 10 ft (3.0 m) area of exclusion would prohibit
Y operation of any of the interconnected alarms.                                                                  the placement of a smoke alarm or smoke detector
L  29.11.2.3 Remote notification appliance circuits of multiple-                                                  required by other sections of this Code.

   station alarms shall be capable of being tested for integrity by                                 (6) Effective January 1, 2022, smoke alarms and smoke
                                                                                                           detectors installed between 6 ft (1.8 m) and 20 ft (6.1 m)
N activation of the test feature on any interconnected alarm.                                              along a horizontal flow path from a stationary or fixed
O N 29.11.2.4 Activation of the test feature shall result in the oper-                                     cooking appliance shall be listed for resistance to
                                                                                                           common nuisance sources from cooking.
   ation of all interconnected notification appliances.
                                                                                                    (7)* Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed
E 29.11.3* Smoke Alarms and Smoke Detectors. Smoke alarms,                                                 within a 36 in. (910 mm) horizontal path from a door to
                                                                                                           a bathroom containing a shower or tub unless listed for
   smoke detectors, devices, combination of devices, and equip-                                            installation in close proximity to such locations.

S ment shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's                                     (8) Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed
                                                                                                           within a 36 in. (910 mm) horizontal path from the
   listing and published instructions, and, unless specifically listed                                     supply registers of a forced air heating or cooling system
                                                                                                           and shall be installed outside of the direct airflow from
U for the application, shall comply with requirements in 29.11.3.1                                         those registers.

   through 29.11.3.4.                                                                               (9)* Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed
                                                                                                           within a 36 in. (910 mm) horizontal path from the tip of
L 29.11.3.1* Peaked Ceilings. Smoke alarms or smoke detectors                                              the blade of a ceiling-suspended (paddle) fan unless the
                                                                                                           room configuration restricts meeting this requirement.
   mounted on a peaked ceiling shall be located within 36 in.
                                                                                                   (10) Where stairs lead to other occupiable levels, a smoke
A (910 mm) horizontally of the peak, but not closer than 4 in.                                             alarm or smoke detector shall be located so that smoke
                                                                                                           rising in the stairway cannot be prevented from reaching
   (100 mm) vertically to the peak.                                                                        the smoke alarm or smoke detector by an intervening
                                                                                                           door or obstruction.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 29.11.3.2* Sloped Ceilings. Smoke alarms or smoke detectors
ID mounted on a sloped ceiling having a rise greater than 1 ft in                                  (11) For stairways leading up from a basement, smoke alarms
                                                                                                           or smoke detectors shall be located on the basement
   8 ft (1 m in 8 m) horizontally shall be located within 36 in.                                           ceiling near the entry to the stairs.

IV (910 mm) of the high side of the ceiling, but not closer than                                   (12)* For tray-shaped ceilings (coffered ceilings), smoke
                                                                                                           alarms and smoke detectors shall be installed on the
   4 in. (100 mm) from the adjoining wall surface.                                                         highest portion of the ceiling or on the sloped portion
   29.11.3.3* Wall Mounting. Smoke alarms or smoke detectors                                               of the ceiling within 12 in. (300 mm) vertically down
                                                                                                           from the highest point.
D mounted on walls shall be located not farther than 12 in.
                                                                                                   (13) Smoke alarms and detectors installed in rooms with
   (300 mm) from the adjoining ceiling surface.                                                            joists or beams shall comply with the requirements of
                                                                                                           17.7.3.2.4.
IN 29.11.3.4 Specific Location Requirements. The installation of
                                                                                                   (14) Heat alarms and detectors installed in rooms with joists
   smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall comply with the
   following requirements:

 R (1) Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be located
 Owhere ambient conditions, including humidity and

            temperature, are outside the limits specified by the

F manufacturer's published instructions.
(2) Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be located                 or beams shall comply with the requirements of 17.6.3.
      within unfinished attics or garages or in other spaces      29.11.4* Heat Detectors and Heat Alarms.
      where temperatures can fall below 40ºF (4.4ºC) or
      exceed 100ºF (38ºC).
(3)* Where the mounting surface could become considerably         29.11.4.1* On smooth ceilings, heat detectors and heat alarms
                                                                  shall be installed within the strict limitations of their listed spac-
      warmer or cooler than the room, such as a poorly insula-    ing.
      ted ceiling below an unfinished attic or an exterior wall,
smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall be mounted on  29.11.4.2* For sloped ceilings having a rise greater than 1 ft in
an inside wall.                                                   8 ft (1 m in 8 m) horizontally, the detector or alarm shall be
(4)* Smoke alarms and smoke detectors shall not be installed      located within 36 in. (910 mm) of the peak.
within an area of exclusion determined by a 10 ft
(3.0 m) radial distance along a horizontal flow path              N 29.11.4.3 The spacing of additional detectors or alarms, if any,
from a stationary or fixed cooking appliance, unless                 shall be based on a horizontal distance measurement, not on a
                                                                     measurement along the slope of the ceiling.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-186                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

29.11.4.4* Heat detectors or alarms shall be mounted on the                         (7) Explanation of signal indicators, including identification
ceiling at least 4 in. (100 mm) from a wall or on a wall with the                   of lights, switches, meters, and similar devices, regarding
top of the detector or alarm not less than 4 in. (100 mm), nor                      their function, unless their function is obvious
more than 12 in. (300 mm), below the ceiling.                                       (8) Distinction between alarm and trouble signals on units
                                                                                          employing both
N 29.11.4.5 Where the mounting surface could become consid-                         (9) The sensitivity setting for an alarm having a fixed setting
   erably warmer or cooler than the room, such as a poorly insula-
   ted ceiling below an unfinished attic or an exterior wall, the                         (For an alarm that is intended to be adjusted in the
   detectors or alarms shall be mounted on an inside wall.                                field, the range of sensitivity shall be indicated. The
                                                                                          marked sensitivity shall be indicated as a percent per
                                                                                            foot obscuration level. The marking shall include a
29.11.4.6 In rooms with open joists or beams, all ceiling-                                  nominal value plus tolerance.)
mounted detectors or alarms shall be located on the bottom of                       (10) Reference to an installation diagram and system owner's
such joists or beams.                                                                           manual
                                                                                       (11) Date of manufacture in the format YEAR (in four digits),
   29.11.4.7* Detectors or alarms installed on an open-joisted
   ceiling shall have their smooth ceiling spacing reduced where                                MONTH (in letters), and DAY (in two digits) located on
   this spacing is measured at right angles to solid joists; in the                             the outside of the alarm
                                                                                    N 29.14.1.1 Where space limitations prohibit inclusion of
Y case of heat detectors or heat alarms, this spacing shall not                        29.14.1(4) and 29.14.1(6), it shall be permitted to include this
L exceed one-half of the listed spacing.                                               information in the installation instructions instead.
N 29.11.5 Wiring and Equipment. The installation of wiring and                      N 29.14.2 Carbon Monoxide Alarm and Detector Markings. In
                                                                                       addition to 29.14.1, carbon monoxide alarms or detectors shall
   equipment shall be in accordance with the requirements of                           be marked with the following information:
   Article 760 of NFPA 70.                                                             (1) Statement that indicates the unit is not suitable as a fire
                                                                                               detector
O N 29.11.6 Installation and Inspection Record. Where a form is                        (2) Electrical rating (if applicable)
   required by the AHJ to document the installation and inspec-                        (3) Warning that carbon monoxide is odorless, colorless, and
E tion of a household alarm system or single- or multiple-station                              tasteless
S alarms, 7.8.2(3) shall be used to document the record of                             (4) Emergency actions to be taken
   completion and inspection.                                                          (5) Recommended replacement date
U 29.12 Optional Functions. The following optional functions                         29.14.3 Household Alarm Control Unit. Unless otherwise
   of fire-warning equipment shall be permitted:                                       permitted by 29.14.4, all household alarm control units shall be
L (1) Notification of the fire department, either directly or                          plainly marked with the following information on the unit:
          through an alarm monitoring service                                          (1) Manufacturer's or listee's name, address, and model
A (2) Monitoring of other safety systems, such as fire sprinklers                              number
          for alarm or proper operating conditions                                     (2) A mark or certification that the unit has been listed
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (3) Notification of occupants or others of potentially danger-     (3) Electrical rating (where applicable)
 ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ous conditions, such as the presence of fuel gases or toxic   (4) Identification of all user interface components and their
          gases such as carbon monoxide                                                        functions (such as, but not limited to, lights, switches, and
   (4) Notification of occupants or others of the activation of                                meters) located adjacent to the component
 IV intrusion (burglar alarm) sensors                                                  (5) Manufacturer's published operating and maintenance
   (5) Any other function, safety related or not, that could share                             instructions
          components or wiring                                                         (6) Test instructions
D 29.13 Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance.                                          (7) Replacement and service instructions
                                                                                       (8) Reference to an installation wiring diagram and home-
IN N 29.13.1 Fire and carbon monoxide alarm equipment shall be                                 owner's manual, if not attached to control unit, by draw-
   maintained and tested in accordance with the manufacturer's                                 ing number and issue number and/or date
   published instructions and per the requirements of 14.4.5 and                    N 29.14.4 Where space limitations prohibit inclusion of
R 14.4.6.                                                                              29.14.3(5) and 29.14.3(7), it shall be permitted to include this
N 29.13.2 All fire and carbon monoxide alarm equipment shall

O be restored to a normal condition after each alarm or test.
F29.14 Markings and Instructions.
                                                                                    information in the installation instructions instead.
29.14.1 Alarms. All alarms shall be plainly marked with the
following information on the unit:                                                  N 29.14.5 Carbon Monoxide Instructions. The following infor-
 (1) Manufacturer's or listee's name, address, and model                               mation shall be included in the instructions provided with
        number                                                                         carbon monoxide alarms and detectors:
 (2) A mark or certification that the unit has been listed                             (1) Installation instructions
 (3) Electrical rating (where applicable)                                              (2) Operating instructions
                                                                                    (3) Testing instructions
(4) Manufacturer's published operating and maintenance                              (4) Maintenance instructions
      instructions                                                                  (5) Replacement and service instructions
                                                                                    (6) Statement indicating that smoke might not be present
(5) Test instructions
(6) Replacement and service instructions                                                   during a carbon monoxide alarm condition

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                     ANNEX A                                                                                        72-187

(7)* Information on the actions to be taken in case of an                              it contains substantial enforcement and administrative provi-
alarm                                                                                  sions.
(8) Minimum and recommended distances from fuel-
       burning appliances                                                              A.3.2.5 Listed. The means for identifying listed equipment
                                                                                       may vary for each organization concerned with product evalua-
                                                                                       tion; some organizations do not recognize equipment as listed
       Annex A Explanatory Material                                                    unless it is also labeled. The authority having jurisdiction
                                                                        should utilize the system employed by the listing organization
Annex A is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document but is  to identify a listed product.
included for informational purposes only. This annex contains explan-
atory material, numbered to correspond with the applicable text para-
graphs.                                                                  A.3.3.6 Acoustically Distinguishable Space (ADS). All parts of
                                                                           a building or area intended to have occupant notification are
                                                                                       subdivided into ADSs as defined. Some ADSs might be designa-
   A.1.2 Fire alarm systems intended for life safety should be                         ted to have voice communications capability and require that
   designed, installed, and maintained to provide indication and                       those communications be intelligible. Other spaces might not
   warning of abnormal fire conditions. The system should alert                        require voice intelligibility or might not be capable of reliable
   building occupants and summon appropriate aid in adequate                           voice intelligibility. An ADS might have acoustical design
                                                                                       features that are conducive for voice intelligibility, or it might
Y time to allow for occupants to travel to a safe place and for                        be a space where voice intelligibility could be difficult or impos-
L rescue operations to occur. The fire alarm system should be                          sible to achieve. Each is still referred to as an ADS.

   part of a life safety plan that also includes a combination of                         In smaller areas, such as those under 400 ft2 (40 m2), walls
                                                                                       alone will define the ADS. In larger areas, other factors might
N prevention, protection, egress, and other features particular to                     have to be considered. In spaces that might be subdivided by
                                                                                       temporary or movable partitions, such as ballrooms and meet-
   that occupancy.                                                                     ing rooms, each individual configuration should be considered
                                                                                       a separate ADS. Physical characteristics, such as a change in
O A.1.2.4 The intent of this paragraph is to make it clear that                        ceiling height of more than 20 percent, or a change in acousti-
                                                                                       cal finish, such as carpet in one area and tile in another, would
   the protection requirements are derived from the applicable                         require those areas to be treated as separate ADSs. In larger
                                                                                       areas, there might be noise sources that require a section to be
E building or fire code, not from NFPA 72.                                             treated as a separate ADS. Any significant change in ambient
                                                                                       noise level or frequency might necessitate an area be consid-
   A.1.6.5 Where dimensions are expressed in inches, it is inten-                      ered a separate ADS.

S ded that the precision of the measurement be 1 in., thus plus                           In areas of 85 dBA or greater ambient sound pressure level,
                                                                                       meeting the pass/fail criteria for intelligibility might not be
   or minus 12 in. The conversion and presentation of dimensions                       possible, and other means of communications might be neces-
                                                                                       sary. So, for example, the space immediately surrounding a
U in millimeters would then have a precision of 25 mm, thus plus                       printing press or other high-noise machine might be designa-
                                                                                       ted as a separate ADS, and the design might call for some form
   or minus 13 mm.                                                                     of effective notification but not necessarily require the ability to
                                                                                       have intelligible voice communications. The aisles or operator's
L A.3.2.1 Approved. The National Fire Protection Association                           control stations might be separate ADSs where intelligible voice
A does not approve, inspect, or certify any installations, proce-                      communication might be desired.

   dures, equipment, or materials; nor does it approve or evaluate                        Significant differences in furnishings -- for example, an area
                                                                                       with tables, desks, or low dividers adjacent to an area with high
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U testing laboratories. In determining the acceptability of installa-shelving -- would require separate consideration. The entire
                                                                                       desk area could be a single acoustic zone, whereas each area
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tions, procedures, equipment, or materials, the authority        between shelving could be a unique zone. Essentially, any note-
                                                                                       worthy change in the acoustical environment within an area
ID having jurisdiction may base acceptance on compliance with                          will mandate consideration of that portion of the area to be

   NFPA or other appropriate standards. In the absence of such
   standards, said authority may require evidence of proper instal-

IV lation, procedure, or use. The authority having jurisdiction

   may also refer to the listings or labeling practices of an organi-

D zation that is concerned with product evaluations and is thus in

   a position to determine compliance with appropriate standards

IN for the current production of listed items.

   A.3.2.2 Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). The phrase
   "authority having jurisdiction," or its acronym AHJ, is used in

R NFPA documents in a broad manner, since jurisdictions and

   approval agencies vary, as do their responsibilities. Where

Opublic safety is primary, the authority having jurisdiction may

   be a federal, state, local, or other regional department or indi-

Fvidual such as a fire chief; fire marshal; chief of a fire preven-
tion bureau, labor department, or health department; building                          treated as an acoustic zone. Hallways and stairwells will typically
official; electrical inspector; or others having statutory author-                     be considered as individual acoustic zones.
ity. For insurance purposes, an insurance inspection depart-
ment, rating bureau, or other insurance company                                           Spaces confined by walls with carpeting and acoustical ceil-
representative may be the authority having jurisdiction. In                            ings can be deemed to be one ADS. An ADS should be an area
many circumstances, the property owner or his or her designa-                          of consistent size and material. A change of materials from
ted agent assumes the role of the authority having jurisdiction;                       carpet to hard tile, the existence of sound sources, such as
at government installations, the commanding officer or depart-                         decorative waterfalls, large expanses of glass, and changes in
mental official may be the authority having jurisdiction.                              ceiling height, are all factors that might separate one ADS from
                                                                                       another.
A.3.2.3 Code. The decision to designate a standard as a
"code" is based on such factors as the size and scope of the                              Each ADS might require different components and design
document, its intended use and form of adoption, and whether                           features to achieve intelligible voice communication. For exam-
                                                                                       ple, two ADSs with similar acoustical treatments and noise

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-188                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

levels might have different ceiling heights. The ADS with the                 A.3.3.38.3 Sloping Peaked-Type Ceiling. Refer to Figure
lower ceiling height might require more ceiling-mounted loud-                 A.17.6.3.4(a) for an illustration of smoke or heat detector spac-
speakers to ensure that all listeners are in a direct sound field             ing on peaked-type sloped ceilings.
(see Figure A.3.3.6). Other ADSs might benefit from the use of
alternate loudspeaker technologies, such as line arrays, to                   A.3.3.38.4 Sloping Shed-Type Ceiling. Refer to Figure
achieve intelligibility.                                                      A.17.6.3.4(b) for an illustration of smoke or heat detector spac-
                                                                              ing on shed-type sloped ceilings.
   An ADS that differs from another because of the frequency
and level of ambient noise might require the use of loudspeak-     A.3.3.40.3 Smooth Ceiling. Open truss constructions are not
ers and system components that have a wider frequency band-        considered to impede the flow of fire products unless the
width than conventional emergency communications                   upper member, in continuous contact with the ceiling, projects
equipment. However, designers should not use higher band-          below the ceiling more than 4 in. (100 mm).

width loudspeakers in all locations, unless needed to overcome N A.3.3.41.4 Valve-Regulated Lead-Acid (VRLA) Cell. VRLA
   certain acoustic and ambient conditions. This is because the               cells provide a means for recombination of internally gener-
   higher bandwidth appliance will require more energy to                     ated oxygen and the suppression of hydrogen gas evolution to
   perform properly. This increases amplifier and wire size and               limit water consumption. (SIG-TMS)
                                                                              A.3.3.47.2 Radio Channel. The width of the channel depends
Y power supply requirements.                                                  on the type of transmissions and the tolerance for the
 L In some spaces, it might be impractical to achieve intelligibil-           frequency of emission. Channels normally are allocated for
                                                                              radio transmission in a specified type for service by a specified
   ity, and, in such a case, alternatives to voice evacuation might           transmitter.
                                                                              A.3.3.51 Coded. Notification signal examples are numbered
N be required within such areas.                                              strokes of an impact-type appliance and numbered flashes of a
 O There might be some areas of a facility where there are                    visual appliance.
                                                                              A.3.3.57 Communications Center. Examples of functions of a
   several spaces of the same approximate size and the same                   communications center are as follows:
   acoustic properties. For example, there might be an office                 (1) Communications between the public and the communi-

E space with multiple individual offices, each with one loud-                        cations center
                                                                              (2) Communications between the communications centers,
   speaker. If one or two are satisfactorily tested, there is no need
                                                                                     the emergency response agency (ERA), and emergency
S to test all of them for speech intelligibility.                                    response facilities (ERFs)
U N A.3.3.12.3 Manual Fire Alarm Box. The term box is currently               (3) Communications within the ERA and between different
                                                                                     ERAs
   the term used by building codes and nationally recognized test-                   [1221:A.3.3.19]
                                                                              (4) Communications with the public emergency alarm
L ing laboratories. They are also called manual fire alarm                           reporting system
                                                                                 The central operating part of the public emergency alarm
   stations, pull stations, and call points. (SIG-IDS)                        reporting system is usually located at the communications
                                                                              center.
A N A.3.3.20 Ancillary Functions. Ancillary functions can include             A.3.3.61 Condition. See Figure A.3.3.61 that describes the
   general paging, background music, or other non-emergency                   Condition -- Signal -- Response model used in this Code.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U signals. (SIG-ECS)                                        There are varying degrees of conditions that require varying
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.3.3.30 Average Ambient Sound Level. The term averagedegrees of response that are initiated by various types of
   ambient sound level is also called the equivalent A-weighted               signals. A condition could be present without being detected
IV sound level measured over t hours, where t is the time period              (either because detection of the condition was not required or
   over which the measurement is made. The standard industry                  was not feasible), in which case, there is no signal or response.
   symbol is LA.eq.t. Where a measurement is taken over a 24-hour
D time period, the designation would be LA.eq.24.

IN N A.3.3.31 Battery. Common usage permits this designation to
   be applied to a single cell used independently. Cells can be
   connected in series or parallel, or both, to provide the required
FOR operating voltage and current levels. (SIG-TMS)
                   71.5 ft (21.8 m)                                                         15 ft (4.6 m)
                                     8.5 ft (2.6 m)
                                                                   45.5 ft (13.9 m)

FIGURE A.3.3.6                                     117 ft (35.7 m)
Associates, Inc.)
                   Illustration Demonstrating the Effect of Ceiling Height. (Source: R. P. Schifiliti

2019 Edition       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                  ANNEX A                                                                  72-189

A condition could be detected, resulting in a signal, but there  The term pre-alarm condition is different from the terms posi-
could be no required response. A signal could be generated       tive alarm sequence, alarm verification, and pre-signal.
erroneously in the absence of a condition (due to malfunction
or other causes) resulting in an unwarranted response. The       A.3.3.61.1.3 Supervisory Condition. A supervisory condition
condition is normal when no abnormal conditions are present.     occurs when one system supervises another system, process, or
                                                                 equipment for failure or impairment, and a functional failure
A.3.3.61.1.1 Alarm Condition. When an alarm condition is         or impairment to operation of the supervised system, process
present, damage to life or property has begun or will begin.     or equipment has occurred. A supervisory condition might be a
Detection, signaling, and response, effected quickly, can limit  regularly occurring and expected event such as a valve closed
or prevent damage. The extent of damage is often reduced         on a sprinkler system. A closed valve is an abnormal condition
with inverse proportion to the time required for detection,      for the sprinkler system, but it does not constitute a trouble
signaling, and response. The amount of time available for        condition in the fire alarm or signaling system.
  detection, signaling, and response is generally not a known
  quantity and damage might not be preventable. Alarm condi-
  tions can result due to the presence of fire, chemicals, freezing
  temperatures, or other circumstances.

Y A.3.3.61.1.2 Pre-Alarm Condition. Some examples of pre-
L alarm conditions include the following: the presence of a very

  small amount of visible smoke (at levels below listed initiating

N device alarm thresholds), the presence of a smoke-like odor, a

  somewhat elevated temperature, and a gradually increasing

O temperature. Any abnormal condition that typically precedes

  an alarm condition can be termed a pre-alarm condition.

 E The amount of time available for investigating the cause of a

  pre-alarm condition is not a known quantity. If conditions dete-

S riorate to the point of alarm, time is no longer available for

  investigation. Pre-alarm conditions might or might not

U progress to alarm conditions.
 L The detection of pre-alarm conditions may be desirable in

  some occupancies, particularly if environmental conditions are

A ordinarily well controlled (e.g., integrated circuit fabrication

  facility) and personnel are trained to respond appropriately. In

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U other occupancies, the detection of pre-alarm conditions may

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} not be desirable or necessary.
 ID Condition                                                       In some cases, a fault in one system, causing a trouble condi-
 IV A situation,        Signal          Response                 tion in that system, results in a supervisory condition in
                      A discrete         Actions or              another system because the other system is supervising some
        environmentalmessage or      changes of state            function of the faulted system, and the supervised function has
            state, orstatus indicationperformed upon             been impaired. In those cases, both supervisory and trouble
                   communicated        the receipt of            conditions exist at the same time.
 D equipment state. by electrical         a signal.
 IN Normal        or other means.                                   Some examples of supervisory conditions can include the
 R condition                             Pre-alarm               following:
 OPre-alarm           Pre-alarm          response                (1) An event causing the activation of a supervisory initiating
F condition             signal
                                                                        device used to monitor an environmental parameter,
                                                                        system element, component, or function, whose failure
                                                                        poses a risk to life, property, or mission (e.g., sprinkler
                                                                        valve closed, water tank low water level, low building
                                                                        temperature, ECS impairment, and so forth).
                                                                 (2) The failure of a guard to remain within established
                                                                        constraints while on tour, usually indicated by the
                                                                        absence of a guard's tour supervisory signal within
                                                                        prescribed timing requirements, or the presence of a
                                                                        guard's tour supervisory signal outside of prescribed
                                                                        sequencing requirements, or the presence of a delin-
                                                                        quency signal.
                                                                 (3) Public safety radio communications enhancement system
                                                                        antenna malfunction, signal booster failure, or battery
                                                                        depletion.
                                                                 (4) In some cases, the presence of smoke in an HVAC duct or
                                                                        in other places as defined by the authority having jurisdic-
                                                                        tion.
                                                                 A.3.3.61.1.4 Trouble Condition. A trouble condition is a fault
                                                                 in the fire alarm or signaling system. The system or some aspect
                                                                 of it is somehow broken. This is different from a supervisory
                                                                 condition that is an abnormal condition in a system that is
                                                                 supervised by the fire alarm or signaling system. Abnormal
                                                                 conditions, such as a closed valve in a sprinkler system, not
                                                                 caused by a fault are not considered trouble conditions.
                                                                    In some cases, a fault in one system, causing a trouble condi-
                                                                 tion in that system, results in a supervisory condition because
                                                                 another system is supervising some function of the faulted
                                                                 system, and the supervised function has been impaired by the
  Alarm           Alarm                Alarm                     fault (see A.3.3.61.1.3, Supervisory Condition). In those cases,
condition         signal             response                    both supervisory and trouble conditions exist at the same time.

Supervisory       Supervisory        Supervisory                 A.3.3.63.1 Autonomous Control Unit (ACU). Although an
  condition           signal          response                   ACU might incorporate provisions for messages or signals from
                                                                 external sources, the ACU is fully capable of building controls
 Trouble          Trouble             Trouble                    without the need for sources outside the building. An ACU is
condition         signal             response                    allowed to be located within a primary building and supply
                                                                 circuits to immediately adjacent support buildings such as
Return to normal  Restoration                                    detached storage buildings. Larger buildings will generally
     condition       signal                                      have their own ACUs to allow individual control within each
                                                                 building.

FIGURE A.3.3.61 Condition-Signal-Response Model.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-190                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N A.3.3.69 Design Professional. An architect/engineer working                       A.3.3.70.13 Multi-Sensor Detector. Typical examples of multi-
for the owner in the preparation of bid documents, overseeing                       sensor detectors are a combination of a heat detector with a
systems covered by this standard as part of a design-build                          smoke detector, or a combination rate-of-rise and fixed-
project, or an engineer performing a risk analysis, would be                        temperature heat detector that evaluates both signals using an
considered a design professional under the requirements of                          algorithm to generate an output such as pre-alarm or alarm.
this standard. (SIG-ECS)                                                            The evaluation can be performed either at the detector or at
                                                                                    the control unit. Other examples are detectors that include
A.3.3.70.4 Combination Detector. These detectors do not                             sensor combinations that respond in a predictable manner to
utilize a mathematical evaluation principle of signal processing                    any combination of heat, smoke, carbon monoxide, or carbon
more than a simple "or" function. Normally, these detectors                         dioxide.
provide a single response resulting from either sensing
method, each of which operates independent of the other.                            A.3.3.70.18 Rate Compensation Detector. A typical example
These detectors can provide a separate and distinct response                        of a rate compensation detector is a spot-type detector with a
resulting from either sensing method, each of which is                              tubular casing of a metal that tends to expand lengthwise as it
processed independent of the other.                                                 is heated and an associated contact mechanism that closes at a
                                                                                    certain point in the elongation. A second metallic element
Y A.3.3.70.7 Fixed-Temperature Detector. The difference                             inside the tube exerts an opposing force on the contacts, tend-
                                                                                    ing to hold them open. The forces are balanced in such a way
between the operating temperature of a fixed-temperature                            that, on a slow rate-of-temperature rise, there is more time for
                                                                                    heat to penetrate to the inner element, which inhibits contact
L device and the surrounding air temperature is proportional to                     closure until the total device has been heated to its rated
                                                                                    temperature level. However, on a fast rate-of-temperature rise,
the rate at which the temperature is rising. The rate is                            there is not as much time for heat to penetrate to the inner
                                                                                    element, which exerts less of an inhibiting effect so that contact
N commonly referred to as thermal lag. The air temperature is                       closure is achieved when the total device has been heated to a
                                                                                    lower temperature. This, in effect, compensates for thermal
always higher than the operating temperature of the device.                         lag.
                                                                                    A.3.3.70.19 Rate-of-Rise Detector. Typical examples of rate-of-
O Typical examples of fixed-temperature sensing elements are                        rise detectors are as follows:
                                                                                    (1) Pneumatic Rate-of-Rise Tubing. A line-type detector compris-
as follows:
                                                                                           ing small-diameter tubing, usually copper, that is installed
E (1) Bimetallic. A sensing element comprised of two metals that                           on the ceiling or high on the walls throughout the protec-
 S have different coefficients of thermal expansion arranged                               ted area. The tubing is terminated in a detector unit that
                                                                                           contains diaphragms and associated contacts set to
       so that the effect is deflection in one direction when                              actuate at a predetermined pressure. The system is sealed
                                                                                           except for calibrated vents that compensate for normal
 U heated and in the opposite direction when cooled.                                       changes in temperature.
                                                                                    (2) Spot-Type Pneumatic Rate-of-Rise Detector. A device consisting
(2) Electrical Conductivity. A line-type or spot-type sensing                              of an air chamber, a diaphragm, contacts, and a compen-
                                                                                           sating vent in a single enclosure. The principle of opera-
 L element in which resistance varies as a function of                                     tion is the same as that described for pneumatic rate-of-
                                                                                           rise tubing.
       temperature.                                                                 (3) Electrical Conductivity­Type Rate-of-Rise Detector. A line-type
                                                                                           or spot-type sensing element in which resistance changes
A (3) Fusible Alloy. A sensing element of a special composition                            due to a change in temperature. The rate of change of
       metal (eutectic) that melts rapidly at the rated tempera-                           resistance is monitored by associated control equipment,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ture.                                                                  and an alarm is initiated when the rate of temperature
                                                                                           increase exceeds a preset value.
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (4) Heat-Sensitive Cable. A line-type device in which the sens-A.3.3.71 Device (Class N). Class N devices include compo-
                                                                                    nents connected to a Class N network that monitor the envi-
 ID ing element comprises, in one type, two current-carrying

       wires separated by heat-sensitive insulation that softens at
       the rated temperature, thus allowing the wires to make

 IV electrical contact. In another type, a single wire is

       centered in a metallic tube, and the intervening space is
       filled with a substance that becomes conductive at a criti-

 D cal temperature, thus establishing electrical contact

       between the tube and the wire.

IN (5) Liquid Expansion. A sensing element comprising a liquid
       that is capable of marked expansion in volume in
       response to an increase in temperature.

R A.3.3.70.8 Flame Detector. Flame detectors are categorized as

ultraviolet, single wavelength infrared, ultraviolet infrared, or

O multiple wavelength infrared.
FA.3.3.70.12 Multi-Criteria Detector. A multi-criteria detector
is a detector that contains multiple sensing methods that                           ronment (e.g., smoke, heat, contact closure, manual "in case of
                                                                  fire" pull) and/or provide some output(s) (e.g., dry contact,
respond to fire signature phenomena and utilizes mathemati-                         audible/visual alert/notification, addressable loudspeaker)
cal evaluation principles to determine the collective status of
the device and generates a single output. Typical examples of                       that are required to provide the real-time functionality neces-
                                                                  sary for the protection of life and property. In this way, a
multi-criteria detectors are a combination of a heat detector     component connected to the network used for noncritical
with a smoke detector, or a combination rate-of-rise and fixed-   functions (i.e., maintenance) can be differentiated and exclu-
temperature heat detector that evaluates both signals using an    ded from the monitoring for integrity requirements of Class N.
algorithm to generate an output such as pre-alarm or alarm.
The evaluation can be performed either at the detector or at
the control unit. Other examples are detectors that include          Also in this way, transport equipment (e.g., switches, routers,
sensor combinations that respond in a predictable manner to       hubs, media converters) and other equipment (e.g., printers,
any combination of heat, smoke, carbon monoxide, or carbon        storage devices) can be differentiated from the requirements
dioxide.                                                          applied to Class N devices if they do not provide life safety­
                                                                  specific environmental monitoring, inputs, or outputs for the

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                           ANNEX A                                                                   72-191

life safety system. This is not to say that this equipment is not     excepted allowance of 20 ft (6.1 m) inside a raceway or enclo-
important to the overall operation of the system, just that this      sure defined in 12.6.9.
equipment is not considered a "device" in the context of           N A.3.3.99 Energy Storage Systems. Electrochemical energy
Class N. Equipment that does not meet the definition of a             storage systems include uninterruptable power supplies (UPS).
device cannot be specifically supervised but rather generally         A.3.3.100 Evacuation. Evacuation does not include the reloca-
supervised as they are part of the supervised pathways that serv-     tion of occupants within a building.
ice the Class N devices themselves.

A.3.3.81 Double Doorway. Refer to Figure 17.7.5.6.5.3(A) for        A.3.3.108 Fire Alarm Control Unit (FACU). In addition to the
an illustration of detector location requirements for double        functions identified in the definition, a fire alarm control unit
doors.                                                              might have an integral operator interface, supply power to

   A.3.3.87 Ember. Class A and Class D combustibles burn as                           detection devices, notification appliances, transponder(s), or
   embers under conditions where the flame typically associated                       off-premises transmitter(s) or any combination of these. The
   with fire does not necessarily exist. This glowing combustion                      control unit might also provide transfer of condition to relay or
   yields radiant emissions in parts of the radiant energy spectrum                   devices connected to the control unit. There can be multiple
                                                                                      fire alarm control units in a fire alarm system.
Y that are radically different from those parts affected by flaming                   A.3.3.108.2.1 Dedicated Function Fire Alarm Control Unit. A
                                                                                      dedicated function fire alarm control unit could serve more
   combustion. Specialized detectors that are specifically designed                   than one emergency control function, for example a dedicated
                                                                                      function fire alarm control unit could serve as a single control
L to detect those emissions should be used in applications where                      unit for sprinkler system monitoring and elevator recall. In that
                                                                                      case, the control unit should be labeled as follows:
   this type of combustion is expected. In general, flame detectors                   Sprinkler Waterflow AND Elevator Recall Control and Supervi-

N are not intended for the detection of embers.                                                                     sory Control Unit
O A.3.3.92 Emergency Communications System -- Emergency                               A.3.3.111.1 Combination System. Examples of non-fire
                                                                                      systems are security, card access control, closed circuit televi-
   Command Center. An emergency command center can also                               sion, sound reinforcement, background music, paging, sound
   include the mass notification system control.                                      masking, building automation, time, and attendance.
                                                                                      A.3.3.111.4 Protected Premises (Local) Fire Alarm System. A
E A.3.3.93 Emergency Control Function Interface Device. The                           protected premises fire alarm system is any fire alarm system
S emergency control function interface device is a listed relay or                    located at the protected premises. It can include any of the
                                                                                      functions identified in Section 23.3. Where signals are transmit-
   other listed appliance that is part of the fire alarm system. An                   ted to a communications center or supervising station, the
                                                                                      protected premises fire alarm system also falls under the defini-
U example of an emergency control function interface device is                        tion of one of the following systems: central station service
                                                                                      alarm system, remote supervising station alarm system, propri-
   the fire alarm control relay that removes power to a fan control                   etary supervising station alarm system, or auxiliary alarm
                                                                                      system. The requirements that pertain to these systems apply in
L unit.                                                                               addition to the requirements for the protected premises fire
                                                                                      alarm systems.
   A.3.3.94 Emergency Control Functions. Emergency control                            A.3.3.112 Fire Command Center. The fire command center
                                                                                      should contain the following features as applicable to the
A functions are meant to be observed functions, not equipment                         specific facility:

   or devices. Examples of emergency control functions are fan                         (1) Emergency voice/alarm communications system unit
                                                                                       (2) Fire department communications unit
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U control (operation or shutdown), smoke damper operation,           (3) Fire detection and alarm system annunciator unit
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} elevator recall, elevator power shutdown, door holder release, (4) Annunciator unit visually indicating the location of the

   shutter release, door unlocking, activation of exit marking devi-                          elevators and whether they are operational
   ces, and so forth. Fans, elevators, smoke dampers, door hold-                       (5) Status indicators and controls for air-handling systems
                                                                                       (6) The required fire-fighter's control panel for smoke
IV ers, shutters, locked doors, or exit marking devices themselves

   are not emergency control functions.

D N A.3.3.95 Emergency Response Agency (ERA). An ERA
   includes any public, governmental, private, industrial, or mili-
IN tary organization that engages in the operations specified in
   the definition. [1221:A.3.3.44]
   A.3.3.96 Emergency Response Facility (ERF). Examples of
R ERFs include a fire station, a police station, an ambulance
   station, a rescue station, a ranger station, and similar facilities.
O[1221:A.3.3.45]

FA.3.3.98 Endpoint (Class N). An endpoint device originates
   and/or terminates a communication stream and does not
   forward it to other devices.

An FACU, ACU, ECCU endpoint originates and/or termi-                                  control systems installed in the building
                                                                                       (7) Controls for unlocking stairway doors simultaneously
nates a communication stream with autonomy. If data is sent to                         (8) Sprinkler valve and waterflow detector display panels
or received from other locations, that communications stream                           (9) Emergency and standby power status indicators
forms a new path. The new path could even employ a different                          (10) Telephone for fire department use with controlled
communications protocol and, where permitted, have a differ-                                  access to the public telephone system
ent pathway class designation as defined in Section 12.3.                             (11) Fire pump status indicators

The exception in 12.3.6(1) shows Class N communication                                (12) Schematic building plans indicating the typical floor
paths do not require redundant paths when connected to a
single endpoint device. However, a connection to an FACU,                             plan and detailing the building core, means of egress,
ACU, or ECCU must be redundant even when those elements                               fire protection systems, fire-fighting equipment, and fire
are an endpoint on a Class N communication path, with the                             department access

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-192                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(13) Worktable                                                                         system or unit not functioning when required. This might be
(14) Generator supervision devices, manual start, and trans-                           due to an intentional act, such as closing a valve or disabling an
        fer features                                                                   initiating device. The impairment also might be caused by a
(15) Public address system                                                             deficiency in a piece of equipment or subsystem. An example
(16) Other emergency systems identified in emergency                                   of emergency impairment is physical damage to a control unit
        response plan                                                                  or wiring. Examples of a planned impairment include the addi-
                                                                                       tion of new devices or appliances or the reprogramming of
A.3.3.128 Hearing Loss. The severity of hearing loss is meas-                          system software.
ured by the degree of loudness, as measured in decibels, a
sound must attain before being detected by an individual.  A.3.3.139 In Writing. The definition of in writing should be
Hearing loss can be ranked as mild, moderate, severe, or                               applied to any documentation mandated by this Code whereby
profound. It is quite common for someone to have more than                             a statement or notification, or both, is required to be provided
one degree of hearing loss (e.g., mild sloping to severe). The                         by the sender to a separate and distinct entity or to multiple
   following list shows the rankings and their corresponding deci-                     entities, such as between an inspection, testing, and mainte-
   bel ranges:                                                                         nance service provider and a building owner or between a
                                                                                       supervising/central station provider and the authority having
Y (1) Mild:                                                                            jurisdiction.
 L (a) For adults: between 25 and 40 dB
                                                                                          Such correspondence should be authorized and recognized
          (b) For children: between 15 and 40 dB                                       by the sender as an official representation of their organization
                                                                                       and clearly identifiable from the recipient's perspective as
N (2) Moderate: between 41 and 55 dB                                                   having been authorized by the sender. Examples of corre-
                                                                                       spondence made in writing could include, but not be limited to,
   (3) Moderately severe: between 56 and 70 dB                                         hard copy or digital notification that includes company letter-
   (4) Severe: between 71 and 90 dB                                                    head or other type of company designation, authorized signa-
                                                                                       tory or signatories either in digital form or on hard copy, or in
O (5) Profound: 90 dB or greater                                                       an email signature block, or any combination thereof. Exam-
                                                                                       ples where such correspondence would be required could
      NIOSH defines material hearing impairment as an average                          include, but not be limited to, test plans, inspection and testing
                                                                                       reports, notification of deficiencies/corrections, change of
E of the hearing threshold levels for both ears that exceeds 25 dB                     supervising/central station providers, notification of recalled
S at 1000, 2000, 3000, and 4000 Hz.                                                    equipment, or suspected low audibility levels for alarm signal-
                                                                                       ing.
      The American Medical Association indicates that a person
                                                                                          The definition of in writing should not be applied to text
U has suffered material impairment when testing reveals a 25 dB                        messages, voice mails, notations on scratch paper, or any simi-
                                                                                       lar means of notification that fail to reflect the verifiable and
   average hearing loss from audiometric zero at 500, 1000, 2000,                      authenticated nature of correspondence that is submitted in
                                                                                       writing, as that term is defined by this Code.
L and 3000 Hz. OSHA has recognized that this is the lowest level                       A.3.3.145 Intelligible. The term intelligible is intended to
                                                                                       address only the communications channel and the acoustic
   of hearing loss that constitutes any material hearing impair-                       environment as shown in Figure A.3.3.145. Intelligibility
                                                                                       assumes that the talker or recorded voice message is in a
A ment.                                                                                language and using words known to the listener. It also assumes
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.3.3.136 Identified (as applied to equipment). Some exam-         that the listener has normal hearing.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ples of ways to determine suitability of equipment for a specific                        Listener

ID purpose, environment, or application include investigations by

   a qualified testing laboratory (listing and labeling), an inspec-
   tion agency, or other organizations concerned with product

IV evaluation. [70:100, Informational Note]

N A.3.3.137 Immediately (as used in Chapter 26). Actions that

D are performed "immediately" should be performed within a

   maximum of 90 seconds from receipt of a signal.

IN A.3.3.138 Impairment. An impairment is a system component

   or function that is not working properly, which can result in the
FOR Talker Microphone
                            Mixer     Amplifier

                                                         A

Language      Bandwidth   Bandwidth   Bandwidth                 Noise                     Language
   speed      distortion  distortion  distortion            reverberation                  hearing

articulation                                                   echoes

    Assumed                             Intelligibility                                   Assumed
     normal                           measurements                                         normal

FIGURE A.3.3.145       Voice Signal Path. (Source: K. Jacob, Bose® Professional Systems)

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                       ANNEX A                                   72-193

A.3.3.146.1.1 Emergency Control Function Interface. See                            permit the communications service provider to take
Figure A.3.3.146.1.1.                                                              appropriate action.
                                                                                (4) 24 hours of standby power supply capacity for MFVN
A.3.3.146.2 Fire Alarm Control Interface. Some mass notifica-                          communications equipment located at the communica-
tion systems' autonomous control units (ACUs) might not be                             tions service provider's central office.
listed to UL 864 for fire alarm service. Any component that is
connected to the fire alarm system must be connected through                    (5) Installation of network equipment at the protected prem-
a listed interface that will protect the functions of other systems                    ises with safeguards to prevent unauthorized access to the
should one system experience a failure. This can be through                            equipment and its connections.

isolation modules, control relays, or other approved means that                    When providing telephone service to a new customer, MFVN
are listed for the intended use. As an example, failure of a                    providers give notice to the telephone service subscriber of the
stand-alone ACU should not affect any function of the FACU.                     need to have any connected alarm system tested by authorized
                                                                                fire alarm service personnel in accordance with Chapter 14 to
   A.3.3.155 Local Operating Console (LOC). An LOC allows                       make certain that all signal transmission features have
   users within a building to activate prerecorded messages,                    remained operational. These features include the proper func-
   deliver live voice messages, observe current status of the main              tioning of line seizure and the successful transmission of signals
                                                                                to the supervising station. In this way, the MFVN providers
Y autonomous control unit (ACU), or have similar such ACU                       assist their new customers in complying with a testing proce-
                                                                                dure similar to that outlined in 26.2.7 for changes to providers
   operator functions at various locations within the building. An              of supervising station service.

L LOC serves a similar function as a remote fire alarm annuncia-                   The evolution of the deployment of telephone service has
                                                                                moved beyond the sole use of metallic conductors connecting a
   tor. However, there can be multiple LOC locations within a                   telephone subscriber's premises with the nearest telephone
                                                                                service provider's control and routing point (wire center). In
N building, such as on each floor, at each main entry point, at the             the last 25 years, telephone service providers have introduced a
                                                                                variety of technologies to transport multiple, simultaneous tele-
   switchboard or receptionist's console, or as determined by a                 phone calls over shared communication pathways. In order to
                                                                                facilitate the further development of the modernization of the
O risk analysis.                                                                telephone network, the authorized common carriers (public
                                                                                utility telephone companies) have transitioned their equip-
   A.3.3.161 Managed Facilities-Based Voice Network (MFVN).                     ment into a managed facilities-based voice network (MFVN)
                                                                                capable of providing a variety of communications services in
E Managed facilities-based voice network service is functionally                addition to the provision of traditional telephone service.

   equivalent to traditional PSTN-based services provided by                       Similarly, the evolution of digital communications technol-
                                                                                ogy has permitted entities other than the authorized common
S authorized common carriers (public utility telephone compa-                   carriers (public utility telephone companies) to deploy robust
                                                                                communications networks and offer a variety of communica-
   nies) with respect to dialing, dial plan, call completion,                   tions services, including telephone service.

U carriage of signals and protocols, and loop voltage treatment                    These alternate service providers fall into two broad catego-
                                                                                ries. The first category includes those entities that have emula-
   and provides all of the following features:                                  ted the MFVN provided by the authorized common carriers.
                                                                                The second category includes those entities that offer tele-
L (1) A loop start telephone circuit service interface.                         phone service using means that do not offer the rigorous qual-
A (2) Pathway reliability that is assured by proactive manage-                  ity assurance, operational stability, and consistent features
                                                                                provided by an MFVN.
          ment, operation, and maintenance by the MFVN

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U provider.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (3) 8 hours of standby power supply capacity for MFVN

  ID communications equipment either located at the protec-

          ted premises or field deployed. Industry standards
          followed by the authorized common carriers (public util-

  IV ity telephone companies), and the other communications

          service providers that operate MFVNs, specifically engi-
          neer the selection of the size of the batteries, or other

  D permanently located standby power source, in order to

          provide 8 hours of standby power with a reasonable

  IN degree of accuracy. Of course, over time, abnormal ambi-

          ent conditions and battery aging can always have a poten-
          tially adverse effect on battery capacity. The MFVN field-

  R deployed equipment typically monitors the condition of
FOthe standby battery and signals potential battery failure to
Fire alarm system

FACU                           3 ft (0.9 m) maximum    Component       Emergency
                                                      operating the       control
               Emergency             Emergency         emergency         function
             control function     control function   control function    (3.3.94)
            interface device      interface circuit

                  (3.3.93)

 FIGURE A.3.3.146.1.1 Emergency Control Function Interface.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-194                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

The Code intends to only recognize the use of the telephone           trical acoustic transducer that reproduces a voice or tone
network transmission of alarm, supervisory, trouble, and other        signal, such as a loudspeaker.
emergency signals by means of MFVNs.
                                                                      A.3.3.182.3.1 Textual Visual Notification Appliance. Textual
For example, the Code intends to permit an MFVN to                    visual notification appliances provide temporary text, perma-
provide facilities-based telephone (voice) service that interfaces    nent text, or symbols and include, but are not limited to,
with the premises fire alarm or emergency signal control unit         annunciators, monitors, CRTs, displays, and printers.
through a digital alarm communicator transmitter (DACT)
using a loop start telephone circuit and signaling protocols          A.3.3.186 Occupiable. The term occupiable is used in this
fully compatible with and equivalent to those used in public          Code and in other governing laws, codes, or standards to deter-
switched telephone networks. The loop start telephone circuit         mine areas that require certain features of a system. It is impor-
and associated signaling can be provided through traditional          tant for designers to understand that unless otherwise
copper wire telephone service (POTS -- "plain old telephone           required, spaces that are not occupiable might not require or
service") or by means of equipment that emulates the loop start       need coverage by initiating devices or occupant notification
telephone circuit and associated signaling and then transmits         appliances. For example, most closets would not be considered
the signals over a pathway using packet switched (IP) networks        to be occupiable. However, a space of the same size used as a
                                                                      file room would be considered occupiable.
Y or other communications methods that are part of an MFVN.           A.3.3.188 Octave Band. Frequencies are generally reported
L Providers of MFVNs have disaster recovery plans to address          based on a standard, preferred center frequency, fc. The band-
                                                                      width of a particular octave band has a lower frequency, fn, and
both individual customer outages and widespread events such           an upper frequency, fn+1. The relationships are as follows:

N as tornados, ice storms, or other natural disasters, which                                                        [A.3.3.188a]

include specific network power restoration procedures equiva-                 f/                      f   = 2k
                                                                               n +1                    n
O lent to those of traditional landline telephone services.
                                                                      where:
A.3.3.163 Manufacturer's Published Instructions. Manufac-             k = 1 for octave bands
                                                                      k = 1/3 for one-third octave bands
E turer's applicable documentation can be subject to revision.
S A.3.3.164 Mass Notification Priority Mode. Nonemergency                and

mass notification activations are not intended to initiate this                                                     [A.3.3.188b]

U mode of operation.                                                          f   =                   f 21/ 2
                                                                               c                       n
A.3.3.165 Mass Notification System. A mass notification

L system can use intelligible voice communications, visual signals,

text, graphics, tactile, or other communications methods. The

A system can be used to initiate evacuation or relocation or to

provide information to occupants. The system can be intended

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U for fire emergencies, weather emergencies, terrorist events,

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} biological, chemical or nuclear emergencies, or any combina-

ID tion of these. The system can be automatic, manual, or both.

Access to and control of the system can be from a single, on-site

IV location or can include multiple command locations, including

some remote from the area served. Systems can be wired, wire-
less, or some combination of the two.

D A.3.3.180 Nonrequired. There are situations where the appli-
IN cable building or fire code does not require the installation of

a fire alarm system or specific fire alarm system components,
but the building owner wants to install a fire alarm system or
component to meet site-specific needs or objectives. A building

R owner always has the option of installing protection that is

above the minimum requirements of the Code. It is the intent

O of the Code that any fire alarm system, or fire alarm system

components installed voluntarily by a building owner, meet the

Frequirements of the applicable portions of the Code. However,
                                                                         For example, the 500 Hz octave band (center frequency) has
                                                                      a lower limit of 354 and an upper limit of 707 Hz. The octave
                                                                      band with a center frequency of 1000 Hz has a lower frequency
                                                                      of 707 Hz and an upper frequency of 1414 Hz.
                                                                      A.3.3.195 Ownership. Inspection, testing, and maintenance is
                                                                      the responsibility of the property or building owner, or it can
                                                                      be transferred by contract. Systems installed, owned, or leased
                                                                      by a tenant are the responsibility of the tenant. The installing
                                                                      company should provide written notice of these responsibilities
                                                                      to the system user.
                                                                      A.3.3.221.1 Auxiliary Alarm System. Alarms from an auxiliary
                                                                      alarm system are received at the communications center on the
                                                                      same equipment and by the same methods as alarms transmit-
                                                                      ted from public alarm boxes.

it is not the intent of the Code that the installation of a nonre-    A.3.3.228 Qualified. Qualified might also mean that the
quired fire alarm system, or fire alarm system components, trig-      person has knowledge of the installation, construction, or oper-
ger requirements for the installation of additional fire alarm        ation of apparatus and the hazards involved.
system components or features. For example, the installation of
a fire alarm control unit and fire detectors to service a specific    A.3.3.235 Radio Frequency. The present practicable limits of
area, such as a computer room or flammable liquid storage             radio frequency (RF) are roughly 10 kHz to 100,000 MHz.
room, does not trigger a requirement for audible or visual noti-      Within this frequency range, electromagnetic waves can be
fication appliances, manual fire alarm boxes, or other fire           detected and amplified as an electric current at the wave
alarm system features in other parts of the building.                 frequency. Radio frequency usually refers to the RF of the
                                                                      assigned channel. [1221:A.3.3.86]
A.3.3.182.1.2 Textual Audible Notification Appliance. An
example of a textual audible notification appliance is a an elec-

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                           ANNEX A                                                               72-195

A.3.3.250 Response. Responses can be effected manually or                           transmissions to supervising stations, the light and sound from
automatically. One response to a signal might be to activate                        activated supervisory notification appliances, a delinquency
notification appliances or transmitters, which in turn generate                     signal indicating a guard's tour supervisory condition, and so
additional signals. See A.3.3.61.                                                   forth.

A.3.3.250.1 Alarm Response. Examples include activation of                          The term guard's tour supervisory signal, associated with
alarm notification appliances, elevator recall, smoke control                       systems supporting guard's tour supervisory service, is a
measures, emergency responder dispatch, and deployment of                           message indicating that a guard has activated a guard's tour
resources in accordance with a risk analysis and the associated                     reporting station (not in itself an indication of a supervisory
emergency response plan.                                                            condition). Guard's tour supervisory signals are not a subset of
                                                                                    the general category of supervisory signals as used in this Code.
A.3.3.250.2 Pre-Alarm Response. Examples include the acti-
vation of appropriate notification appliances, dispatch of                          A.3.3.263.10 Trouble Signal. Examples include off-normal
   personnel, investigation of circumstances and problem resolu-                    outputs from integrity monitoring circuits, the light and sound
   tion in accordance with a risk analysis and action plan, prepara-                from activated trouble notification appliances, trouble data
   tion for a potential alarm response, and so forth.                               transmission to a supervising station, and so forth.
                                                                                    A.3.3.276.2 Ionization Smoke Detection. Ionization smoke
Y A.3.3.250.3 Supervisory Response. Examples include the acti-                      detection is more responsive to invisible particles (smaller than
L vation of supervisory notification appliances, the shutdown of                    1 micron in size) produced by most flaming fires. It is some-
                                                                                    what less responsive to the larger particles typical of most smol-
   machines, fan shutdown or activation, dispatch of personnel,                     dering fires. Smoke detectors that use the ionization principle
                                                                                    are usually of the spot type.
N investigation of circumstances and problem resolution in                          A.3.3.276.3 Photoelectric Light Obscuration Smoke Detection.
                                                                                    The response of photoelectric light obscuration smoke detec-
   accordance with a risk analysis and action plan, and so forth.                   tors is usually not affected by the color of smoke.

O A.3.3.250.4 Trouble Response. Examples include the activa-                           Smoke detectors that use the light obscuration principle are
                                                                                    usually of the line type. These detectors are commonly referred
   tion of trouble notification appliances, dispatch of service                     to as projected beam smoke detectors.
                                                                                    A.3.3.276.4 Photoelectric Light-Scattering Smoke Detection.
E personnel, deployment of resources in accordance with an                          Photoelectric light-scattering smoke detection is more respon-
                                                                                    sive to the visible particles (larger than 1 micron in size)
   action plan, and so forth.                                                       produced by most smoldering fires. It is somewhat less respon-
                                                                                    sive to the smaller particles typical of most flaming fires. It is
S N A.3.3.258 Separate Sleeping Area. Bedrooms (or sleeping                         also less responsive to black smoke than to lighter colored
U rooms) separated by other use areas, such as kitchens or living                   smoke. Smoke detectors that use the light-scattering principle
                                                                                    are usually of the spot type.
   rooms (but not bathrooms), are considered separate sleeping                      A.3.3.276.5 Video Image Smoke Detection (VISD). Video
   areas.                                                                           image smoke detection (VISD) is a software-based method of
                                                                                    smoke detection that has become practical with the advent of
L A.3.3.261 Shop Drawings. Shop drawings typically include the                      digital video systems. Listing agencies have begun testing VISD
A property location, scaled floor plans, equipment wiring details,                  components for several manufacturers. VISD systems can
                                                                                    analyze images for changes in features such as brightness,
   typical equipment installation details, riser details, conduit/                  contrast, edge content, loss of detail, and motion. The detec-
                                                                                    tion equipment can consist of cameras producing digital or
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U conductor size, and routing information needed to install a fireanalog (converted to digital) video signals and processing
                                                                                    unit(s) that maintain the software and interfaces to the fire
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} alarm and/or signaling system.                                alarm control unit.
                                                                                    A.3.3.282 Spark. The overwhelming majority of applications
ID A.3.3.263 Signal. See A.3.3.61.
IV A.3.3.263.1 Alarm Signal. Examples of alarm signals include

   outputs of activated alarm initiating devices, the light and
   sound from activated alarm notification appliances, alarm data

D transmission to a supervising station, and so forth.
IN A.3.3.263.5 Fire Alarm Signal. Examples include outputs

   from activated fire alarm initiating devices (manual fire alarm
   box, automatic fire detector, waterflow switch, etc.), the light
   and sound from activated fire alarm notification appliances,

R fire alarm data transmission to a supervising station, and so

   forth.

OA.3.3.263.6 Guard's Tour Supervisory Signal. The term
Fguard's tour supervisory signal, associated with systems supporting
guard's tour supervisory service, is a message indicating that a                    involving the detection of Class A and Class D combustibles
                                                                                    with radiant energy­sensing detectors involve the transport of
guard has actuated a guard's tour reporting station (not in                         particulate solid materials through pneumatic conveyor ducts
itself an indication of a supervisory condition). Guard's tour                      or mechanical conveyors. It is common in the industries that
supervisory signals are not a subset of the general category of                     include such hazards to refer to a moving piece of burning
supervisory signals as used in this Code.                                           material as a spark and to systems for the detection of such fires
A.3.3.263.7 Pre-Alarm Signal. Examples include outputs of                           as spark detection systems.
analog initiating devices prior to reaching alarm levels, the
light and sound from activated pre-alarm notification applian-                      A.3.3.314 Unwanted Alarm. Unwanted alarms are any alarms
ces, aspiration system outputs indicating smoke at levels below                     that occur when there is no hazard condition present. These
                                                                                    are sometimes also called false alarms. Because the term false
the listed alarm threshold, and so forth.                                           has been used by many people to mean many different things,

A.3.3.263.9 Supervisory Signal. Examples include activated                          this Code is instead using the terms unwanted, fault, nuisance,
supervisory signal-initiating device outputs, supervisory data
                                                                                    unintentional, unknown, and malicious to categorize the different

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-196                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

types of alarms. Unwanted alarms might be intentional, unin-      N A.3.3.325 Wireless Mesh Network (WMN) (as used in Chap-
tentional, or unknown. If they were caused intentionally, they       ter 26). Each node participates in routing by forwarding data
might have been done by someone with the intent to cause             for other nodes. The data hops from node to node until it
disruption and should be classified as malicious. However, an        reaches the receiving point. Which nodes forward data can be
unintentional alarm might occur when, for example, a child           predetermined or determination can be made dynamically on
actuated a manual fire alarm box not knowing the consequen-          the basis of network connectivity. Wireless mesh networks are
ces. Similarly, someone accidentally causing mechanical              often designed to self-form and self-heal. Wireless mesh
damage to an initiating device that results in an alarm is caus-     networks can be implemented with various wireless technolo-
ing an unintentional alarm.                                          gies. (SIG-SSS)

A.3.3.314.2 Nuisance Alarm. Nuisance alarms are unwanted          A.3.3.328.2 Signaling Zone. A notification zone is the smallest
alarms. Sometimes nuisance alarms might be called false                            discrete area used for any announcements or signaling.
alarms. In this Code, any unwanted alarm is considered false      Depending on the emergency response plan, a signaling zone
because they are not indicative of real hazards. Because the                       can encompass several notification zones. For example, in most
term false has been used by many people to mean many differ-                       high-rise buildings, each single floor (fire area) is a notification
ent things, this Code is instead using the terms unwanted,                         zone. Most emergency response plans call for the signaling
                                                                                   zone to be the fire floor, floor above, and a floor below.
Y nuisance, and malicious to categorize the different types of
L alarms. They occur when some condition simulates a fire or                          For example, the floors of a high rise that are playing the
                                                                                   evacuation message and the "wait in place" message would be
other hazardous condition. For example, cigarette smoke can                        in the same notification zone, because they are activated simul-
                                                                                   taneously. The word "identical" clarifies that the notification
N activate smoke detectors and smoke alarms. In that case, there                   zone is communicating a common message.
                                                                                   A.7.1.3 Unless otherwise identified, only the minimum docu-
might not be anything wrong with the smoke detector or                             mentation requirements of 7.2.1 apply. More stringent docu-
                                                                                   mentation requirements found in other chapters and other
O smoke alarm -- it is doing its job responding to the condition                   laws, codes, and standards, as well as project specifications,
                                                                                   should identify any other documentation sections in this chap-
or stimulus that it was designed to detect. Another example                        ter that would be applicable.
would be a heat detector or heat alarm that activates when                         A.7.2 It is not intended that all of the details outlined in
                                                                                   Sections 7.3 through 7.5 be required for every project. In
E someone inadvertently points a hair dryer towards it. A mali-                    general, the more complex the system, the more stringent the
                                                                                   requirements become for documentation. It is recognized that
cious alarm occurs when someone intentionally activates the                        some projects would require only the minimum documenta-
                                                                                   tion listed in Section 7.2. Other projects might require more
S detector or alarm when there is no fire hazard. See the defini-                  detailed documentation. Sections 7.3 through 7.5 provide
                                                                                   menus of additional means of documenting a system. The
tions of malicious, unintentional, unknown, and unwanted                           intent is for other governing laws, codes, or standards; other
                                                                                   parts of this Code; or project specifications or drawings to
U alarms.                                                                          select the additional specific pieces of documentation from
L A.3.3.316 Video Image Flame Detection (VIFD). Video image                        Sections 7.3 through 7.5.
                                                                                   A.7.2.1 In many cases, the installer might not have adequate
flame detection (VIFD) is a software-based method of flame                         record drawings or other completion documentation for the
                                                                                   existing system. As an example, where a temporary school
A detection that can be implemented by a range of video image                      building is being installed, the fire alarm system subpanel in
                                                                                   the temporary building should be fully documented, but the
analysis techniques. VIFD systems can analyze images for                           fire alarm system for the entire existing school might be so old
                                                                                   that adequate documentation might not exist. In this example,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U changes in features such as brightness, contrast, edge content,documentation required in Section 7.2 should be completed
                                                                                   only for the new subpanel and the interfaces to the existing
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} loss of detail, and motion. The detection equipment can

ID consist of cameras producing digital or analog (converted to

digital) video signals and processing unit(s) that maintain the
software and interfaces to the fire alarm control unit.

IV A.3.3.321 Wavelength. The concept of wavelength is

extremely important in selecting the proper detector for a

D particular application. There is a precise interrelation between

the wavelength of light being emitted from a flame and the

IN combustion chemistry producing the flame. Specific subato-

mic, atomic, and molecular events yield radiant energy of
specific wavelengths. For example, ultraviolet photons are emit-
ted as the result of the complete loss of electrons or very large

R changes in electron energy levels. During combustion, mole-

cules are violently torn apart by the chemical reactivity of

O oxygen, and electrons are released in the process, recombining
Fat drastically lower energy levels, thus giving rise to ultraviolet
radiation. Visible radiation is generally the result of smaller                    school fire alarm system.
changes in electron energy levels within the molecules of fuel,
flame intermediates, and products of combustion. Infrared                          A.7.2.1(1) The purpose for a written narrative is to provide a
                                                                                   description of the work to be performed and could be as
radiation comes from the vibration of molecules or parts of                        simple as "Install additional three smoke detectors to provide
molecules when they are in the superheated state associated
with combustion. Each chemical compound exhibits a group of                        coverage for newly installed meeting room." However, it could
wavelengths at which it is resonant. These wavelengths consti-                     be desirable to include why or by whose direction the work is
tute the chemical's infrared spectrum, which is usually unique                     being done, such as "at owner's request," "per specifications
                                                                                   dated ...," or "at the direction of ... ." See also Section 23.3 for
to that chemical.                                                                  additional system feature documentation requirements.

This interrelationship between wavelength and combustion
chemistry affects the relative performance of various types of
detectors with respect to various fires.

2019 Edition       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          ANNEX A                                                                      72-197

N A.7.2.1(12) Paragraph 26.6.2.4 allows for the following three               It is the intent that existing systems that are altered should
   communications pathway options when a supervising station               have design (layout) documents prepared that are applicable
   fire alarm system is provided:                                          only to the portion(s) of the system being altered.

(1) Performance-based technologies                                         A.7.3.3 Preliminary plans such as those used for bidding, solic-
(2) Digital alarm communicator systems
(3) Radio systems, which includes one-way private and two-                 itation, or for obtaining permits could contain information as
                                                                           follows:
       way RF systems
                                                                              Performance criteria required in support of alternative
   Chapter 26 includes several requirements specific to each of            means and methods for other codes, standards, or construction
these communications pathway alternatives. In order to verify              features should be clearly identified on the design (layout)
the provided communication path(s), and any shared equip-                  documentation.
ment, comply with Code requirements, the following are exam-
   ples of information that should be submitted as the minimum                Such information should reference applicable waivers,
   documentation for a supervising station fire alarm system:              appeals, variances, or similarly approved deviations from
   (1) Performance-based technologies                                      prescriptive criteria.

  Y (a) The type of performance-based transmitter(s) to be                    Preliminary documents could include the following:
   L used such as IP communicators, cellular radios, and                    (1) Specifications and narrative applicable to the project
                                                                            (2) Interface requirements between systems such as fire
                  so forth
                                                                                   alarm, mass notification, security, HVAC, smoke control,
  N (b) Whether communications with the supervising                                paging, background music, audio visual equipment,
                  station will be via a single pathway or a multiple               elevators, access control, other fire protection systems,
   O pathway                                                                       and so forth
          (c) An indication of the use, where applicable, of                (3) Sequence of operation
                                                                            (4) Survivability of system circuits and equipment, when
                  shared equipment such as routers, modems, and                    applicable
                                                                            (5) Notification zones, when applicable
   E LANs within the protected premises                                     (6) Message content for voice systems
                                                                            (7) Means of system monitoring that is to be provided, when
          (d) Battery calculations for the shared equipment,                       applicable
                                                                            (8) Codes and editions applicable to the system(s)
   S which should meet the requirements of 26.6.3.13                        (9) Special requirements of the owner, governing authority,
                                                                                   or insurance carrier, when applicable
   (2) Digital alarm communicator system                                   (10) Voice delivery components beyond standard industry
                                                                                   products required to achieve intelligibility
  U (a) The primary communications pathway, which                             When devices are located (spaced) on preliminary drawings,
   L should be a telephone line                                            the devices should be located (spaced) in accordance with
                                                                           standards, listings, and limitations of the equipment specified.
          (b) The secondary communications pathway, which                  When devices are not located (spaced) on the preliminary
                                                                           documents, a note should be included directing that the spac-
   A should comply with 26.6.4.1.4                                         ing should be per listing(s) and this Code.
                                                                              When known, acoustic properties of spaces should be indica-
   (3) Radio system                                                        ted on the preliminary design (layout) documents.
                                                                              The architect/engineer preparing bid documents should
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (a) The type of radio system that will be used (privatenot simply require a contractor to install a fire alarm system in
      8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} one-way or two-way RF)                          accordance with codes, but rather outline the intended mini-
  ID (b) The secondary power provided for the radio trans-                 mum performance criteria to be achieved in accordance with
                  mitter                                                   Section 7.3, with guidance from A.7.3.3.
 IV Where the transmitter equipment is located separately from             A.7.3.4.1 See Section 7.2 for the minimum documentation

   the main fire alarm control unit, an indication of its protection
   in accordance with 10.4.4 should also be provided within the

D minimum documentation.
IN A.7.3.1 See Section 7.2 for the minimum documentation

   requirements.
   A.7.3.2 Design (layout) documents should contain informa-

R tion related to the system that could include specifications,

   shop drawings, input/output matrix, battery calculations, noti-

Ofication appliance voltage drop calculations for visual notifica-

   tion appliances and loudspeakers, and product technical data

Fsheets.
                                                                           requirements.
   Design (layout) documents could include such items as
preliminary plans issued as guidance and direction, risk analy-            A.7.3.6 The Risk Analysis Checklist in Figure A.7.3.6 is not
                                                                           mandatory, but it can be used to initiate the thought process
sis, emergency response plan, or a combination of these.                   for identifying hazards in a facility.

Deviations from requirements of governing laws, codes,                     A.7.3.7 When a system or component is installed in accord-
standards, or preliminary plan requirements specified by an
engineer should be clearly identified and documented as such.              ance with performance-based design criteria, such systems
                                                                           should be reviewed and acceptance tested by a design profes-
   Documentation of equivalency, where applicable, should be               sional to verify that performance objectives are attained.
provided in accordance with Section 1.5 and be included with
the record drawings.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-198                                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Facility name:                                          RISK ANALYSIS CHECKLIST
Prepared by:
Title and contact information:                                                   Facility location:
ECS system type:                                                                 Date prepared:

PART ONE: Identification of Assets or Operations at Risk

Use Part One of this checklist to identify the following assets or operations at risk at your facility
   People
                                                               Emergency responders
 Y  Employees                                                  Community surrounding the facility
 L  Visitors and guests
                                                         Utilities
      Contractors working on site                            Telecommunications
                                                             Electricity
N  Property                                                  Water
 O  Physical property                                        Gas
                                                             Steam
          Corporate offices                                  Heating/ventilation/air conditioning
          Manufacturing facilities                           Pollution control
                                                             Sewerage system
 E  Call center                                              Other critical infrastructure

          Distribution centers                           Computers and computer networks
                                                             Software applications
 S  Data-processing center                                   Electronic data

          Research and development labs                  Inventory
                                                             Raw materials
 U  Property on the premises of others                       Finished product

          Vital papers, records, and drawings                  Research and development
                                                               Supply chain
 AL  Intellectual property
          Copyright and patent infringement                    Ground

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U  Trademark infringement
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  Theft of intellectual property
 ID  Theft of information

IV  Operations
 D  Manufacturing processes
 IN  Delivery of services

      Administrative support services

   Environment

 R  Air

      Water

FO  Organization
         Economic and financial condition                Community relationships

         Licenses, patents, or trademarks                Regional and national impact

         Reputation and image as well-managed company    Regulatory compliance and relationships with vendors

         Contractual obligations

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                  NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 2)

 FIGURE A.7.3.6 Risk Analysis Checklist.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        ANNEX A                                                                       72-199

                              RISK ANALYSIS CHECKLIST (continued)

PART TWO: Determination of Facility Hazards

Use Part Two of this checklist to determine the potential hazards that may impact your facility.

 Natural Hazards--Geological                             Landslide, mudslide, subsidence
    Earthquake                                           Glacier, iceberg
    Tsunami
    Volcano

         Natural Hazards--Meteorological                               Lightning strikes
             Flood, flash flood, tidal surge                           Famine
             Drought                                                   Geomagnetic storm
                                                                       Snow, ice, hail, sleet, avalanche
  Y  Windstorm, tropical cyclone, hurricane, tornado,
  L water spout, dust/sand storm                                       Animal or insect infestation or damage

             Extreme temperatures (heat, cold)                         Entrapment
                                                                       Mechanical breakdown
 N  Natural Hazards--Biological                                        Energy/power/utility failure
  O  Diseases (pandemic)                                               Fuel/resource shortage
                                                                       Air/water pollution, contamination
         Human-Caused Accidental Events                                Water control structure/dam/levee failure
                                                                       Communications systems interruptions
  E  Hazardous material (explosive, flammable liquid,                  Financial issues, economic depression, inflation,
                flammable gas, flammable solid, oxidizer, poison,
  S radiological, corrosive) spill or release                            financial system collapse
                                                                       Misinformation
  U  Natural gas leak
                                                                       Sniper incident
             Nuclear power plant incident                              Crime, theft, or robbery
             Hazmat incident off site                                  Product defect or contamination
                                                                       Harassment
  L  Explosion/fire                                                    Arson
  A  Wildfire (forest, range, urban, wildland,                         Bomb threat
                                                                       Lost person
                urban interface)                                       Child abduction
                                                                       Kidnap
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U  Transportation accident (motor vehicle, railroad, Extortion
     8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} watercraft, aircraft pipeline)               Hostage incident
  ID  Building/structure failure or collapse                           Workplace violence
         Human-Caused Intentional Events
  IV  Terrorism (explosive, chemical, biological,
                radiological, nuclear, cyber)
  D  Sabotage or vandalism
             Civil disturbance, public unrest, mass hysteria, riot
  IN  Enemy attack, war
             Insurrection
             Strike or labor dispute
             Demonstration
  R  Disinformation
             Criminal activity (vandalism, arson, theft, fraud,
 Oembezzlement, data theft)

F  Electromagnetic pulse
 Physical or information security breach

 Technological-Caused Events                                           Energy/power/utility
                                                                       Ancillary support equipment
    Telecommunications
    Central computer, mainframe, software, or

       application (internal/external)

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                           NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 2)

 FIGURE A.7.3.6 Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-200                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Due to unique design and construction challenges, fire                            ance, reacceptance, and periodic testing. It is also necessary for
protection concepts are often established on performance-                         enforcement personnel in order to prevent confusion when
based engineering practices. When such practices have been                        they could otherwise misidentify an approved variation for
approved by the authority having jurisdiction, the engineer of                    being non-code compliant. This documentation is also neces-
record should sign off on the final installation documents to                     sary for those who might design additions or modifications.
ensure that all conditions have been satisfied. Such engineer-
ing analysis could be beyond the qualifications of the code                       A.7.5.6.1 It is the intent of this section to permit using forms
authority. As such, it is imperative that the engineer of record                  other than Figure 7.8.2(a) through Figure 7.8.2(f) as long as
review and accept final concepts as accepted by the authority                     they convey the same information.

having jurisdiction.                                                              A.7.5.6.2 Protected premises fire alarm systems are often

   A.7.3.9.1 Evaluation documentation can also include docu-                         installed under construction or remodeling contracts and
   mentation such as that associated with performance-based                          subsequently connected to a supervising station alarm system
   alternatives and documentation related to equivalencies as well                   under a separate contract. All contractors should complete the
   as any other special documentation that is specific to a particu-                 portions of the record of completion documentation for the
   lar system. Examples of where evaluations might be required                       portions of the connected systems for which they are responsi-
                                                                                     ble. Several partially completed documents might be accepted
Y are found in 23.4.3.1 and 24.5.24.2.                                               by the authority having jurisdiction provided that all portions
L A.7.4.1 See Section 7.2 for the minimum documentation                              of the connected systems are covered in the set of documents.
                                                                                   A.7.5.6.3 The requirements of Chapter 14 should be used to
   requirements.                                                                     perform the installation wiring and operational acceptance
                                                                                     tests required when completing the record of completion.
N A.7.4.2 It is important to note that shop drawings and particu-
O larly the word "sheets" do not necessarily mean physical paper                         The record of completion form shall be permitted to be
                                                                                     used to record decisions reached prior to installation regarding
   sheets, but could be on electronic media.                                         intended system type(s), circuit designations, device types, noti-
                                                                                     fication appliance type, power sources, and the means of trans-
E A.7.4.9 For an example of an input/output matrix of opera-                         mission to the supervising station.
                                                                                     A.7.5.6.6.3 It is the intent that if an original or current record
   tion, see A.14.6.2.4.                                                             of completion is not available for the overall system, the instal-
                                                                                     ler would provide a new record of completion that addresses
S A.7.5.1 See Section 7.2 for the minimum documentation                              items discovered about the system. The installer will complete
U requirements.                                                                      the respective sections related to the overall system that have
                                                                                     been discovered under the current scope of work. It is not the
 A.7.5.3(1) An owner's manual should contain the following                           intent of this section to require an in-depth evaluation of an
                                                                                     existing system solely for the purpose of completing a system-
L documentation:                                                                     wide record of completion.
                                                                                     A.7.5.8 This section is intended to provide a basis for the
   (1) A detailed narrative description of the system inputs,                        authority having jurisdiction to require third-party verification
                                                                                     and certification that the authority having jurisdiction and the
  A evacuation signaling, ancillary functions, annunciation,                         system owner can rely on to reasonably assure that the fire
                                                                                     alarm system installation complies with the applicable require-
           intended sequence of operations, expansion capability,                    ments. Where the installation is an extension, modification, or
                                                                                     reconfiguration of an existing system, the intent is that the veri-
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U application considerations, and limitations.                    fication be applicable only to the new work and that reaccep-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (2) A written sequence of operation in matrix or narrative   tance testing be acceptable.
                                                                                     A.7.7.1.2 It is intended that archived records be allowed to be
           form.                                                                     stored in electronic format as long as hard copies can be made
   (3) Operator instructions for basic system operations, includ-                    from them when required.

  IV ing alarm acknowledgment, system reset, interpretation

           of system output (LEDs, CRT display, and printout), oper-
           ation of manual evacuation signaling and ancillary func-

  D tion controls, and change of printer paper.

   (4) A detailed description of routine maintenance and test-

  IN ing as required and recommended and as would be provi-

           ded under a maintenance contract, including testing and
           maintenance instructions for each type of device instal-

  R led. This information should include the following:

           (a) Listing of the individual system components that

  Orequire periodic testing and maintenance
 F(b) Step-by-step instructions detailing the requisite test-
       ing and maintenance procedures, and the intervals                           A.7.7.2.3 The intent is that paper and/or electronic docu-
       at which these procedures are to be performed, for                            ments should not be stored inside the control unit because
       each type of device installed                                                 control units are not typically approved for the storage of
(c) A schedule that correlates the testing and mainte-                               combustible material.
       nance procedures
(5) A service directory, including a list of names and tele-                      Examples of system documents include the following:
phone numbers of those who provide service for the
system.                                                                           (1) Record drawings (as-builts)
                                                                                  (2) Equipment technical data sheets
                                                                                  (3) Alternative means and methods, variances, appeals,
A.7.5.5.2 For an example of an input/output matrix of opera-                             approvals, and so forth
tion, see A.14.6.2.4.
A.7.5.5.5 It is important that the documentation required by                      (4) Performance-based design documentation in accordance
this section is available for technicians so they will be able to                        with 7.3.7
recognize variations of system configuration during accept-
                                                                                  (5) Risk analysis documentation in accordance with 7.3.6
                                                                                  (6) Emergency response plan in accordance with 7.3.8

2019 Edition          Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       ANNEX A                                                   72-201

(7) Evaluation documentation in accordance with 7.3.9                            (9) Type(s) of fire alarm initiating devices, supervisory alarm
(8) Software and firmware control documentation in accord-                       initiating devices, and evacuation notification appliances
ance with 23.2.2                                                                 to be provided
                                                                                 (10) Intended area(s) of coverage
A.7.7.2.6 Documentation stored in electronic media can                           (11) Complete list of detection, signaling, and annunciator
become obsolete, for example, 5.25 in. and 3.5 in. disks and
tape drives are not supported by current technology. Updating                            zones
the stored media to current technology concerns the programs                     (12) Complete list of emergency control functions
used to operate them, and the computer or hardware used to                       (13) Complete sequence of operations detailing all inputs
interface to the system installed. Thus, it is necessary to ensure
                                                                                         and outputs

that all components are still compatible with the installed N A.10.4.4 Switches and visible indicators referenced in 10.4.4
system.                                                                          are those intended for use by the system owner and first
                                                                                 responders. It is not the intent of the committee to require all
   A.7.7.3.2 It is recognized that there are circumstances in                    control unit diagnostic indicators or configuration switches
   which the security and protection of some system documents                    used by the installation/service personnel required to be instal-
   will require measures other than that prescribed in this Code.                led within these limits. Control units that do not have such
                                                                                 operator interface are not bound by this requirement;
Y Since a common expectation of a mass notification system is to                 however; the installer should consider best practice for ease in
                                                                                 serviceability.
   function during security and/or terrorist events, it could be                 A.10.4.5 The control units that are to be protected are those
                                                                                 that provide notification of a fire to the occupants and
L crucial that system design be protected.                                       responders. The term control unit does not include equipment
 N Where such conditions have been identified, the stakehold-                    such as annunciators and addressable devices. Requiring smoke
                                                                                 detection at the transmitting equipment is intended to increase
   ers should clearly identify what and how system documents                     the probability that an alarm signal will be transmitted to a
                                                                                 supervising station prior to that transmitting equipment being
O should be maintained to satisfy the integrity of this section                  disabled due to the fire condition.

   regarding reviews, future service, modifications, and system                     CAUTION: Exception No. 1 to 10.4.5 permits the use of a
   support.                                                                      heat detector if ambient conditions are not suitable for smoke
                                                                                 detection. It is important to also evaluate whether the area is
 E Due to freedom of information laws allowing for public                        suitable for the control unit.
S access to documents submitted to and retained by code offi-
                                                                                    Where the area or room containing the control unit is provi-
   cials, it could be necessary for secure documents to be reviewed              ded with total smoke detection coverage, additional smoke
                                                                                 detection is not required to protect the control unit. Where
U by code officials at alternate locations. Such conditions should               total smoke detection coverage is not provided, the Code
                                                                                 intends that only one smoke detector is required at the control
   be identified by the stakeholders and discussed with the author-              unit even when the area of the room would require more than
                                                                                 one detector if installed according to the spacing rules in
L ities having jurisdiction(s) in advance.                                       Chapter 17. The intent of selective coverage is to address the
                                                                                 specific location of the equipment.
   A.7.8.1.1 See Section 7.2 for the minimum documentation
                                                                                    The location of the required detection should be in accord-
A requirements.                                                                  ance with 17.7.3.2.1.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.7.8.2(1) Examples of completed record of completion forms  A.10.5.3 It is not the intent to require personnel performing
                                                                                 simple inspections or operational tests of initiating devices to
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} are shown in Figure A.7.8.2(1)(a) through Figure A.7.8.2(1)require factory training or special certification, provided such
                                                                                 personnel can demonstrate knowledge in these areas.
ID (f).                                                                          A.10.5.3.1 The requirements for inspection personnel can
                                                                                 vary depending on the type of inspection being performed.
   A.7.8.2(2) Figure 7.8.2(g) through Figure 7.8.2(l) are sample

IV forms intended to reflect the general information that should

   be provided as part of a system inspection and test report, but
   they are not intended to mandate a specific format for the

D report. A report format customized to the specific system

   configuration, devices, appliances, and system functions being

IN tested meets the intent of the requirement.

   A.10.3.3 This requirement does not apply to notification
   appliance circuits.

R A.10.3.5(1) The requirement of 10.3.5(1) does not preclude
Otransfer to secondary supply at less than 85 percent of nominal
Fprimary voltage, provided the requirements of 10.6.7 are met.
 A.10.4.1 Fire alarm specifications can include some or all of                   The purpose for initial and reacceptance inspections is to
the following:
                                                                                 ensure compliance with approved design documents and to
                                                                                 ensure installation in accordance with this Code and other
(1) Address of the protected premises                                            required installation standards. Therefore, the acceptance
(2) Owner of the protected premises                                              inspection should be performed by someone who is familiar
(3) Authority having jurisdiction                                                with the specific requirements, the design documents, and the
(4) Applicable codes, standards, and other design criteria to                    applicable codes and standards. This implies that acceptance
                                                                                 inspections should be performed by the persons or entities
      which the system is required to comply
(5) Type of building construction and occupancy
(6) Fire department response point(s) and annunciator                            responsible for the system design and by authorities having
      location(s)                                                                jurisdiction.

(7) Type of fire alarm system to be provided
(8) Calculations (e.g., secondary supply and voltage drop
calculations)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-202                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                      SYSTEM RECORD OF COMPLETION

              This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
                       It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                     Insert N/A in all unused lines.
                             Attach additional sheets, data, or calculations as necessary to provide a complete record.

              Form Completion Date: 2 November 2019                Supplemental Pages Attached:  0

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION

        Name of property: World Storage and Transfer Headquarters

        Address: 27132 Santa Anita Boulevard, Hilo, HI
        Y Address: As above
        Description of property: Business and Office Building
        L Phone: (743) 225-9768
        Name of property representative: Joe Bago Donits

N 2. INSTALLATION, SERVICE, TESTING, AND MONITORING INFORMATION
                                      Fax: (743) 225-9768                 E-mail: jbago@WLST.net
        O Installation contractor: SparkeeÊs Electric
        E Phone: (978) 456-9876
        Address: 1954 Nimitz Highway, Honolulu, HI 76542
        S Address:
                                      Fax: (978) 456-9876                 E-mail: shortcircuitguy@sparkee.net

        U Phone:
        Service organization: None

        L Address: 2300 Daly Boulevard, Austin, TXFax:                    E-mail:
                                                                          E-mail: testerjim@JPI.com
        A Phone: (407) 738-4587
        Testing organization: JimÊs Protection, Inc.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Monitoring organization: Look the Other Way, Inc.
                                      Fax: (407) 738-4598

        ID Address: 995 Highway 35W, Minneapolis, MN
        Effective date for test and inspection contract: 25 January 2011

        IV Account number: 56734598   Fax: (412) 456-7272                 E-mail: Look@otherway.com
        Phone: (412) 456-9078
        D Entity to which alarms are retransmitted: Honolulu FD
                                            Phone line 1: (212) 978-6576  Phone line 2: (212) 978-9978

        Means of transmission: IP
IN 3. DOCUMENTATION
    On-site location of the required record documents and site-specific software: Building Mgrs. Office Room 203
                                                                          Phone: (808) 455-5555

R 4. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE                                     Permit number:         11-907645

      This is a:  New system  Modification to existing system

FONFPA 72 edition: 2019
        4.1 Control Unit

        Manufacturer: Halter Cabinet                                      Model number: 1019-7647

        4.2 Software and Firmware
        Firmware revision number: 7.0 B Executive Rev 9.11

   4.3 Alarm Verification                                           This system does not incorporate alarm verification.
   Number of devices subject to alarm verification:
                                                                   Alarm verification set for       seconds
© 2018 National Fire Protection Association
                                                                                                            NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(a) Example of Completed System Record of Completion.

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                     ANNEX A                                                          72-203

                              SYSTEM RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

5. SYSTEM POWER

5.1 Control Unit

5.1.1 Primary Power                                                                      Control panel amps:     7.3 Amps
Input voltage of control panel: 120 VAC                                                  Amps: 20 Amps
Overcurrent protection: Type: Breaker                   Breaker Panel · Room B-23        Number: 23

Branch circuit disconnecting means location:

5.1.2 Secondary Power
Y Location, if remote from the plant: Rear Yard
Type of secondary power: Battery
L In standby mode (hours): 24
N 5.2 Control Unit
O  This system does not have power extender panels

     Power extender panels are listed on supplementary sheet A

E 6. CIRCUITS AND PATHWAYS
Calculated capacity of secondary power to drive the system:

                                                                        In alarm mode (minutes): 15

    S Pathway Type                                      Dual Media      Separate               Class             Survivability
 U Signaling Line                                         Pathway       Pathway                   A                    Level
                                                                                                                         1
         Device Power                                                        X                    B
                                                                                                  B                      1
 L Initiating Device                                                         X                                           1
 A Notification Appliance                                                    X
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Other (specify):
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 7. REMOTE ANNUNCIATORS
   IV Type

                    Tabular
IND 8. INITIATING DEVICES                                                         Location

                                                        Front Lobby

                        Type  Quantity                  Addressable or          Alarm or                           Sensing
                                  12                     Conventional         Supervisory                        Technology
 R Manual Pull Stations           8
 OSmoke Detectors                                         Addressable             Alarm                          Photoelectric
F Duct Smoke Detectors                                    Addressable             Alarm

Heat Detectors

Gas Detectors                 1                         Conventional              Supervisory

Carbon Monoxide Detectors

Waterflow Switches            2                         Conventional              Alarm

Tamper Switches               4                         Conventional              Supervisory

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                           NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(a) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-204                                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              SYSTEM RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

9. NOTIFICATION APPLIANCES

                       Type                             Quantity        Description
Audible                                                     18
Visual                                                      24
Combination Audible and Visual                               6

10. SYSTEM CONTROL FUNCTIONS                            Type                                         Quantity
                                                                                                         4
Y Hold-Open Door Releasing Devices                                                                       2
L HVAC Shutdown
N Fire/Smoke Dampers                                                                                      1
                                                                                                         2
 Door Unlocking

O Elevator Recall

 Elevator Shunt Trip
USE 11. INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS
        L  This system does not have interconnected systems.
        A  Interconnected systems are listed on supplementary sheet
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 12. CERTIFICATION AND APPROVALS                  .

        ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 12.1 System Installation Contractor

        This system as specified herein has been installed according to all NFPA standards cited herein.
        IV Signed:

        Organization: SparkeeÊs Electric
        D 12.2 System Operational Test
        IN This system as specified herein has tested according to all NFPA standards cited herein.
                                                                  Printed name: Harry Johnson        Date: 11 November 2019
                                                                  Title: Principal                   Phone: (978) 456-9876

        Signed:                                                   Printed name: Jim Riverbottom      Date: 14 January 2011
                                                                  Title: President                   Phone: (407) 738-4583
        R Organization: JimÊs Protection, Inc.
 O12.3 Acceptance Test
FDate and time of acceptance test: 0830 hrs. · 18 November 2019
        Installing contractor representative: Jim Johnson

        Testing contractor representative: Reginald OÊHaraquest

        Property representative: Danny MacIntosh

        AHJ representative: Inspector DiDonato

           © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                               NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(a) Continued

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                               ANNEX A                                                                                72-205

                        EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                       SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

        This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes systems and components
                                           specific to emergency communications systems.

This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
         It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                       Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Form Completion Date: 2 November 2019          Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION
    Name of property: World Storage and Transfer Headquarters

Y Address: 27132 Santa Anita Boulevard, Hilo, HI
L 2. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE
N  Fire alarm with in-building fire emergency voice alarm communication system (EVAC)
O  Mass notification system

 Combination system, with the following components:

E  Fire alarm  EVACS  MNS  Two-way, in-building, emergency communications system
S  Other (specify):
L U 2.1 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice Alarm Communications System
NFPA 72 edition: 2019                        Additional description of system(s):

A Manufacturer: Halter Cabinet
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Number of single voice alarm channels: 2                       Model number: 1018-7648
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Number of loudspeakers: 99
                                                              Number of multiple voice alarm channels: 0

  DIV Location of paging microphone stations:                 Number of loudspeaker circuits: 12
  IN Location 1: Fire Control Room

            Location 2: Security Office
             Location 3:

  R2.2 Mass Notification System
FO2.2.1 System Type:
Location of amplification and sound processing equipment: Fire Control Room

 In-building MNS­combination

 In-building MNS  Wide-area MNS  Distributed recipient MNS

 Other (specify):

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                      NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(b) Example of Completed Emergency Communications System Supplementary Record of Completion.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-206                                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                    EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
                           SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

2. DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM OR SERVICE (continued)

        2.2.2 System Features:
         Combination fire alarm/MNS  MNS autonomous control unit  Wide-area MNS to regional national alerting interface
         Local operating console (LOC)  Distributed-recipient MNS (DRMNS)  Wide-area MNS to DRMNS interface
         Wide-area MNS to high power loudspeaker array (HPLA) interface  In-building MNS to wide-area MNS interface

         Other (specify):
        2.2.3 MNS Local Operating Consoles
        Location 1: Fire Control Room

        Y Location 2: Security Office
        L Location 3:
        N 2.2.4 High-Power Loudspeaker Arrays
        O Number of HPLA loudspeaker initiation zones: 0

        Location 1:

        E Location 2:
        S Location 3:
        U 2.2.5 Mass Notification Devices
        L Textual signs:
        Combination fire alarm/MNS visual devices: 48                                      MNS-only visual devices:
        A Supervision class:
                                                       Other (describe):
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 2.2.6 Special Hazard Notification
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} This system does not have special suppression predischarge notification.
ID  MNS systems DO NOT override notification appliances required to provide special suppression predischarge notification.
IV 3. TWO-WAY EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
        D Number of telephone jacks installed: 15
        IN Number of telephone handsets stored on site: 6
        3.1 Telephone System

                                                                          Number of warden stations installed: 3

        R 3.2 Area of Refuge (Area of Rescue Assistance) Emergency Communications Systems
        Type of telephone system installed:  Electrically powered Sound powered

        ONumber of stations: 0
FDays and hours when central control point is attended:
                                                       Location of central control point:

        Location of alternate control point:

        Days and hours when alternate control point is attended:

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(b) Continued

2019 Edition                    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                      ANNEX A                                                                         72-207

         EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

3. TWO-WAY EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS (continued)

3.3 Elevator Emergency Communications Systems

Number of elevators with stations: 2                  Location of central control point: Fire Control Room

Days and hours when central control point is attended: 24

Location of alternate control point: None

Days and hours when alternate control point is attended: None
3.4 Other Two-Way Communications System

Y Describe:
NL 4. CONTROL FUNCTIONS
    This system actuates the following control functions specific to emergency communications systems:
          O Type
E Mass Notification Override of Alarm Signaling Systems or Appliances                                            Quantity
                                                                                                                     1
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDE5BD47BC8} See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

         © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                             NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(b) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-208                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                      POWER SYSTEMS
                                  SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

                    This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes systems and components specific
              to power systems that incorporate generators, ESS systems, remote battery systems, or other complex power systems.

                  This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
                           It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                          Insert N/A in all unused lines.

              Form Completion Date: 2 November 2019            Number of Supplemental Pages Attached: 0

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION
    Name of property: World Storage and Transfer Headquarters

Y Address: 27132 Santa Anita Boulevard, Hilo, HI
L 2. SYSTEM POWER
        N 2.1 Control Unit
        O 2.1.1 Primary Power
        Input voltage of control panel: 120 volt

        E Overcurrent protection: Type: Circuit Breaker
        S Location (of primary supply panelboard): Main Electrical Room in Basement
        U Disconnecting means location: Panel E2 · Electric Room
                                                                Control panel amps: 7.3
                                                                Amps: 20

        L 2.1.2 Engine-Driven Generator

        Location of generator:

        A Location of fuel storage:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 2.1.3 Energy Storage Systems
        ID Equipment powered by ESS system:                     Type of fuel: Diesel

        IV Calculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:None

        Location of ESS system:
        D 2.1.4 Batteries
        IN Location: FACU                                       In alarm mode (minutes):
        In standby mode (hours):

        R In standby mode (hours): 24  Type: Gel Cell           Nominal voltage: 24              Amp/hour rating: 16

        Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:
FO2.2 In-Building Fire Emergency Voice Alarm Communications System or Mass Notification System
                                                                In alarm mode (minutes): 15

        2.2.1 Primary Power

        Input voltage of EVACS or MNS panel: 120 volt           EVACS or MNS panel amps: 8.8

        Overcurrent protection: Type: Circuit Breaker           Amps: 20

        Location (of primary supply panelboard): Main Electrical Room in Basement

        Disconnecting means location: Panel E2 · Electric Room

          © 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                    NFPA 72 (p. 1 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(c) Example of Completed Power Systems Supplementary Record of Completion.

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       ANNEX A                                                                        72-209

                                               POWER SYSTEMS
                   SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

2. SYSTEM POWER (continued)                                   Type of fuel: Diesel

    2.2.2 Engine-Driven Generator
    Location of generator:
    Location of fuel storage:

2.2.3 Energy Storage Systems
Y Calculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:
Equipment powered by ESS system:             None

L In standby mode (hours): N/A   N/A
Location of ESS system:

N 2.2.4 Batteries
                                                              In alarm mode (minutes):  N/A
O Location: ECS Panel                                                                   Amp/hour rating: 20
E In standby mode (hours): 24                                                           15
                                             Type: Gel Cell   Nominal voltage: 24
                                                              In alarm mode (minutes):
S 2.3 Notification Appliance Power Extender Panels
U  This system does not have power extender panels.
Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

L 2.3.1 Primary Power
A Overcurrent protection: Type: Circuit Breaker
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Location (of primary supply panelboard):
Input voltage of power extender panel(s): 120 volt            Power extender panel amps: 8

                                                              Amps: 20
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Disconnecting means location:
                                             See Table

2.3.2 Engine-Driven Generator

IV Location of generator:

Location of fuel storage:
D 2.3.3 Energy Storage Systems
IN Equipment powered by ESS system:                           Type of fuel: Diesel

RCalculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:None

Location of ESS system:
OIn standby mode (hours):
F 2.3.4 Batteries                                             In alarm mode (minutes):

Location: Power Panel                        Type: Gel Cell   Nominal voltage: 24       Amp/hour rating: 12

Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

In standby mode (hours): 24                                   In alarm mode (minutes): 15

See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                      NFPA 72 (p. 2 of 3)

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(c) Continued

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-210                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                          POWER SYSTEMS
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION (continued)

2. SYSTEM POWER (continued)

        2.4 Supervising Station Transmission Equipment

         This system does not use transmission equipment within the building powered by any other source than the alarm
        system control unit.

        2.4.1 Primary Power

        Y Overcurrent protection: Type: Breaker
        Input voltage of shared transmission equipment: 120 VAC

        L Location (of primary supply panelboard): Breaker Panel B-23
        Shared transmission equipment panel amps: 73 amps

                                                                           20 amps
        N Disconnecting means location: Electric Room               Amps:

        O 2.4.2 Engine Driven Generator

        Location of generator:

        E Location of fuel storage:
        S 2.4.3 Energy Storage Systems
                                                                    Type of fuel:
        U Equipment powered by ESS system:
        L In standby mode (hours):
A 2.4.4 Batteries
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Location: FACU
        Calculated capacity of ESS batteries to drive the system components connected to it:

                                                                    In alarm mode (minutes):

        8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Calculated capacity of batteries to drive the system:

        ID In standby mode (hours): 24
                                             Type: Gel Nominal voltage: 12                    Amp/hour rating: 16

              IV See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.
                                                                    In alarm mode (minutes): 15

D  FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(c) Continued                                                                               NFPA 72 (p. 3 of 3)
© 2018 National Fire Protection Association
IN Once a system or a change to a system has been accepted,
                                                                    A.10.5.3.4(2) Nationally recognized fire alarm certification
the inspection needs also change. The purpose for periodic          programs might include those programs offered by the Inter-
                                                                    national Municipal Signal Association (IMSA), National Insti-
R inspections is to assure that obvious damages or changes that     tute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET),
                                                                    and the Electronic Security Association (ESA). NOTE: These
might affect the system operability are visually identified. Those  organizations and the products or services offered by them
                                                                    have not been independently verified by the NFPA, nor have
O persons performing periodic system inspections might or

might not be familiar with all the specific system design goals

Fand requirements. While many periodic inspections could
uncover design faults, the intent of this Code is for such prob-    the products or services been endorsed or certified by the
lems to be discovered at the acceptance inspection. The Code        NFPA or any of its technical committees.
does not intend to require persons performing periodic inspec-
tions necessarily to be knowledgeable or qualified for inspect-     A.10.5.3.4(3) Licenses and certifications offered at a state or
ing and verifying the design of a system.                           local level are intended to recognize those individuals who
                                                                    have demonstrated a minimum level of technical competency
A.10.5.3.2 Testing personnel knowledge should include equip-        in the area of fire alarm servicing.
ment selection, placement, and installation requirements of
this Code and the manufacturer's published documentation.           A.10.5.3.5 This is not intended to require certification where
                                                                    it is not offered or required by the manufacturer.
A.10.5.3.4(1) Factory training and certification is intended to
allow an individual to service equipment only for which he or
she has specific brand and model training.

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        ANNEX A                                                              72-211

  NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE POWER PANEL
SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

       This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes a list of types and locations
                                           of notification appliance power extender panels.

This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
         It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                       Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Form Completion Date: 2 November 2019                   Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:                   0

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION
    Name of property: World Storage and Transfer Headquarters

Y Address: 27132 Santa Anita Boulevard, Hilo, HI
L 2. NOTIFICATION APPLIANCE POWER EXTENDER PANELS
   N Make and Model
   O Firelite W123                           Location            Area Served                    Power Source
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BD47BC8} SK +ABC3rd Floor3rd Floor                    Panel 3E
                                             6th Floor             6th Floor                        Panel 3G

See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association                                                                         NFPA 72

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(d) Example of Completed Notification Appliance Power Panel Supplementary Record of Completion.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-212        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                         INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS
              SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

                     This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It includes a list of types and locations
                                                    of systems that are interconnected to the main system.

              This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
                       It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                                     Insert N/A in all unused lines.

              Form Completion Date: 2 November 2019  Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION
    Name of property: World Storage and Transfer Headquarters

Y Address: 27132 Santa Anita Boulevard, Hilo, HI
L 2. INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS
   N Description
              E O Fan Shutdown                       Location
                                                                              Purpose

                                                                       Shut down fans on
                                                                      fire alarm activation

                                                                  Recall elevators in case of
                                                               alarm on lobby smoke detectors
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDE5BD47BC8} Elevator RecallRoof

              Elevator Room

                    See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.              NFPA 72

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(e) Example of Completed Interconnected Systems Supplementary Record of Completion.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                       ANNEX A                                                                                72-213

DEVIATIONS FROM ADOPTED CODES AND STANDARDS
       SUPPLEMENTARY RECORD OF COMPLETION

      This form is a supplement to the System Record of Completion. It enables the designer and/or installer
                             to document and justify deviations from accepted codes or standards.

This form is to be completed by the system installation contractor at the time of system acceptance and approval.
         It shall be permitted to modify this form as needed to provide a more complete and/or clear record.
                                                       Insert N/A in all unused lines.

Form Completion Date: 2 November 2019  Number of Supplemental Pages Attached:

1. PROPERTY INFORMATION
    Name of property: World Storage and Transfer Headquarters

Y Address: 27132 Santa Anita Boulevard, Hilo, HI
L 2. DEVIATIONS FROM ADOPTED CODES OR STANDARDS
     N Description
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD47BC8} Waterflow switch set to a 120-second tripPurpose

                                       Issue has been identified that there are water
                                       surges during evening hours

                    See Main System Record of Completion for additional information, certifications, and approvals.  NFPA 72

© 2018 National Fire Protection Association

 FIGURE A.7.8.2(1)(f) Example of Completed Deviations from Adopted Codes and Standards Supplementary Record of
   Completion.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-214                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.10.5.5.1(2) An example of an organization providing alarm                          ESS equipment often contains an internal bypass arrange-
monitoring operator training is the Central Station Alarm Asso-                      ment to supply the load directly from the line. These internal
ciation (CSAA). Note that this reference is for information                          bypass arrangements are a potential source of failure. ESS
purposes only, information concerning the product or service                         equipment also requires periodic maintenance. It is, therefore,
has been provided by the manufacturer or other outside sour-                         necessary to provide a means of promptly and safely bypassing
ces, and the information concerning the product or service has                       and isolating the ESS equipment from all power sources while
not been independently verified nor has the product or service                       maintaining continuity of power supply to the equipment
been endorsed or certified by the NFPA or any of its technical                       normally supplied by the ESS.
committees.
                                                                                     A.10.6.7.2 When a fire alarm system is used to alert occupants,
A.10.5.6.4.2(2) An example of an organization providing                              the associated premises are generally evacuated during
public emergency alarm reporting system certification is the                         prolonged power outages. When this is not the case, as in
International Municipal Signal Association. Note that this refer-                    emergency shelters or certain government facilities, additional
   ence is for information purposes only. Information concerning                        secondary power should be required to address a more
   the product or service has been provided by the manufacturer                         prolonged outage. These outages might be expected to result
   or other outside sources, and the information concerning the                         from weather or earthquake in locations subject to these
                                                                                        events. Reasonable judgment should be employed when requir-
Y product or service has not been independently verified, nor                           ing additional secondary capacity.
L has the product or service been endorsed or certified by NFPA
                                                                                            When a fire alarm system is used to protect property, the
   or any of its technical committees.                                                  associated premises might be vacant for prolonged periods
                                                                                        (weekend, long holiday) or in very remote locations. When this
N A.10.5.6.4.2(4) Factory training and certification are intended                       is the case, and when the risk of loss is significant, additional
                                                                                        secondary power should be required to address a more
   to allow individuals to service only the equipment for which                         prolonged outage. These outages might be expected to result
                                                                                        from weather or earthquake in locations subject to these
O they have specific brand and model training.                                          events. Reasonable judgment should be employed when requir-
                                                                                        ing additional secondary capacity.
N A.10.6.1 Exceptions exist in Chapter 23 for low-power wireless                      A.10.6.7.2.1.1 The 20-percent safety margin is intended to
                                                                                        address normal aging effects on battery capacity. As a battery
E systems and in Chapter 29 for household low-power wireless                            ages, rated capacity will decrease to 80 percent, which is consid-
                                                                                        ered the end of service life. As a minimum, a 20-percent correc-
   systems and smoke alarms.                                                            tion factor should be applied for aging to ensure the battery
                                                                                        can meet its current demand at the end of service life. At initial
S N A.10.6.4 ESS classifications are found in NFPA 111. Previous                        installation, battery capacity can be as low as 90 percent and
U editions of NFPA 72 referenced uninterruptible power supplies                         should gradually increase when it is subjected to several deep
                                                                                        discharge/charging cycles or when it remains on float-charge
   (UPS) systems, which is one type of an ESS.                                          for several weeks. For additional information on battery sizing
                                                                                        considerations refer to IEEE 485, Recommended Practice for Sizing
L N A.10.6.5.1.2 Multiple pieces of system equipment can be                             Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary Applications.
   connected to a branch circuit, subject to the current capacity of                 N A.10.6.7.2.3 For combination systems, such as a combination
A the circuit. It is not intended that a branch circuit be limited to                   carbon monoxide and fire alarm system, where the carbon
   a single piece of equipment. It is not intended that the circuit                     monoxide notification appliances are capable of being oper-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U supply power to other than system equipment. For example, a         ated separately from the fire alarm system notification applian-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} branch circuit could power both a fire alarm control unit and   ces, only the carbon monoxide notification appliances are
   an NAC power supply, but it could not power both a fire alarm                        required to operate for 12 hours.
   control unit and a sprinkler system air compressor.                                  A.10.6.7.3 The secondary power supply is not required to
                                                                                        supply power to the fire alarm system through parallel distribu-
IV  A.10.6.5.2.2 The purpose of this requirement is to ensure that                      tion paths. Automatic transfer switches are commonly used to
   circuit disconnecting means for fire alarm and signaling                             allow secondary power to be supplied over the same distribu-
D systems are readily identifiable so that users will not mistakenly
   disconnect the power to the system or so that they can quickly
IN disconnect power without having to search the electrical panel-
   board chart to identify the circuit. The intent of this require-
   ment is not to require specific text for identification. Marking
   can include one of the following:
R (1) "FIRE ALARM" for fire alarm systems
O (2) "EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS" for emergency
           communications systems
F(3) "FIRE ALARM/ECS" for combination fire alarm and
emergency communications systems                                                     tion system as the primary power.
(4) "CARBON MONOXIDE" for carbon monoxide detection
       systems                                                                          The generator does not need to be dedicated to the fire
                                                                                     alarm system.
   It would be acceptable to show the text using upper and/or
lower case, such as "fire alarm," or "Fire Alarm," or "FIRE                          A.10.6.8.1 Examples include the following:

ALARM."                                                                              (1) A building lighting power supply required for illumina-
                                                                                            tion in a required video image smoke detection means
A.10.6.6 Where a computer system of any kind is used to                              (2) A notification appliance circuit power supply located
receive and process alarm or supervisory signals, an ESS with
sufficient capacity to operate the system until the secondary                               remotely
supply is capable of operating the fire alarm system might be                        (3) A power supply for transmitter required to transmit
required in order to prevent signal loss or a greater than 10-
                                                                                            signals off premises

second signal delay.

2019 Edition          Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                               ANNEX A                                                                                                      72-215

(4) Power over ethernet (PoE), where provided for control                            ance with 24.3.12 to determine which, if any, messages should
units, circuit interfaces, or other equipment essential to                           receive priority.
system operation, and located remotely from the main
control unit                                                                         A.10.7.9 In addition, the override of circuits should be indica-
                                                                                     ted at the control panel of each system to ensure signals are
A.10.6.9.2 Because digital alarm communicator systems estab-                         restored to normal.
lish communications channels between the protected premises
and the central station via the public switched telephone                            A.10.10.4 Control unit signals can be audible, visual, or both
network, the requirement to supervise circuits between the                           for any particular function. Some older systems used only audi-
protected premises and the central station (see 12.6.1 and                           ble indicators that had to be coded for users to know what the
12.6.2) is considered to be met if the communications channel                        signal meant. Where a control unit uses both audible and visual
is periodically tested in accordance with 26.6.4.1.5.                                indicators, the purpose of the audible signal is to get someone's
                                                                                     attention. In large system configurations, there might be multi-
   A.10.6.9.3 This requirement is intended to prevent all of the                     ple control units with audible signals. Also, there might be
   supervising station alarm systems in a given geographic area                      several different functions requiring an audible alert as a part
   from transmitting simultaneous trouble signals (and over-                         of the whole signal. Thus, there could be several different audi-
                                                                                     ble signals. It is not the intent of this Code to have separate and
Y whelming the associated supervising stations) in the event of a                    distinct audible signals where clear visual distinction provides
                                                                                     the user with the needed information. Visual signals, whether a
   widespread power failure. A trouble signal is not intended to                     lamp with a text label, an LCD screen, a computer monitor, or
                                                                                     other textual visual appliances, are better forms of human
L be transmitted if primary power is restored within the time                        interface.
                                                                                     A.10.10.5 A valve supervisory, a low-pressure switch, or
   delay.                                                                            another device intended to cause a supervisory signal when
                                                                                     activated should not be connected in series with the end-of-line
N A.10.6.10 The valve-regulated lead-acid (VRLA) battery type                        supervisory device of initiating device circuits, unless a distinc-
O of rechargeable battery is currently used in protected premises                    tive signal, different from a trouble signal, is indicated.
                                                                                     A.10.11.1 Activation of an initiating device is usually the
   applications.                                                                     instant at which a complete digital signal is achieved at the
                                                                                     device, such as a contact closure. For smoke detectors or other
 E This rechargeable-type battery is generally used in place of                      automatic initiating devices, which can involve signal process-
                                                                                     ing and analysis of the signature of fire phenomena, activation
   primary batteries in applications that have a relatively high                     means the instant when the signal analysis requirements are
                                                                                     completed by the device or fire alarm control unit software.
S current drain or that require the extended standby capability
                                                                                        A separate fire alarm control unit contemplates a network of
   of much lower currents. The nominal voltage of a single                           fire alarm control units forming a single large system as
                                                                                     defined in Section 23.8.
U starved electrolyte cell is 2 volts, and the battery is available in
                                                                                        For some analog initiating devices, activation is the moment
   multiples of 2 volts (e.g., 2, 4, 6, 12). Batteries should be stored              that the fire alarm control unit interprets that the signal from
                                                                                     an initiating device has exceeded the alarm threshold program-
L according to the battery manufacturer's published instructions.                    med into the fire alarm control unit.

   These batteries are often incorrectly referred to as "sealed lead-                   For smoke detectors working on a system with alarm verifica-
                                                                                     tion, where the verification function is performed in the fire
A acid," "gel" or "maintenance-free batteries."                                      alarm control unit, the moment of activation of smoke detec-
      There are two technologies available. The most common                          tors is sometimes determined by the fire alarm control unit.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U type is referred to as "absorbed glass mat" or AGM. In this tech-   It is not the intent of this paragraph to dictate the time
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} nology, the electrolyte is immobilized by being absorbed intoframe for the local fire safety devices to complete their func-
                                                                                     tion, such as fan wind-down time, door closure time, or eleva-
   fiberglass mats that surround the plates. Nearly all VRLA                         tor travel time.
   batteries in use in U.S. fire protection applications are AGM.

 IV The second technology is referred to as gelled electrolyte. In

   this technology, the electrolyte is immobilized in a silica gel.

D This technology is predominately seen in European applica-

   tions. While some manufacturers refer to the battery as a gel

IN battery in the literature, this needs to be confirmed by the tech-

   nician. Gel batteries require higher float voltages than AGM,
   and floating an AGM battery at gel voltages will shorten the
   battery life.

R A.10.6.10.3.4 The circuitry and methods for charging batter-
Oies of various types are to be evaluated by a nationally recog-

   nized testing laboratory to ensure they are appropriate for the

Fpurpose. During primary power use, batteries are trickle-
   charged if they are off-line and waiting to be put under load in
the event of a loss of power.
                                                                                     A.10.11.2 The intent of this requirement is to ensure that
                                                                                     persons who are deaf or hard of hearing are alerted to seek
   Float-charged batteries are fully charged and connected                           additional information regarding an emergency situa-
across the output of the rectifiers to smooth the output and to                      tion. Persons who are deaf or hard of hearing are not always
serve as a standby source of power in the event of a loss of line                    alerted by the loudspeakers that provide evacuation tones or
power. Other charging methods are used to restore capacity to                        voice instructions. It is intended that the loudspeakers and
a battery after it has been utilized during a loss of primary                        visual notification appliances located in the same area be acti-
power.                                                                               vated together whenever tones, recorded voice instructions, or

A.10.7.3 Mass notification signals might, at times, be more                          live voice instructions are being provided. (SIG-ECS)
important to the building or area occupants than the fire alarm
signal. Stakeholders should perform a risk analysis in accord-

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                             2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-216                                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.10.11.4 The recommended coded signal designations for                             allows NAC extender panels and relays to be connected to a
buildings that have four floors and multiple basements are                          control circuit.
provided in Table A.10.11.4.
                                                                                    A.10.18.3 The primary purpose of annunciation is to enable
A.10.11.6 Resetting of alarm signals should not require the                         responding personnel to quickly and accurately determine the
simultaneous operation of multiple reset switches or the                            status of equipment or emergency control functions that might
disconnection of any wiring or equipment to reset the alarm                         affect the safety of occupants.
condition.
                                                                                    A.10.18.5 Fire alarm system annunciation should, as a mini-
A.10.12 It is the intent that both visual and audible appliances                    mum, be sufficiently specific to identify a fire alarm signal in
are shut off when the notification appliance silence feature is                     accordance with the following:
activated on the fire alarm control unit.
                                                                                    (1) If a floor exceeds 22,500 ft2 (2090 m2) in area, the floor
                                                                                    should be subdivided into detection zones of 22,500 ft2
Per the ADA, it is important not to provide conflicting
signals for the hearing or visually impaired.                                              (2090 m2) or less, consistent with the existing smoke and
A.10.12.2 Where it is desired to deactivate the notification                               fire barriers on the floor.
                                                                                    (2) If a floor exceeds 22,500 ft2 (2090 m2) in area and is undi-
Y appliances for fire service operations inside the building and                           vided by smoke or fire barriers, detection zoning should
L signal evacuated occupants that an alarm is still present, it is                         be determined on a case-by-case basis in consultation with
                                                                                           the authority having jurisdiction.
recommended that a separate non-silenceable notification                            (3) Waterflow switches on sprinkler systems that serve multi-
                                                                                           ple floors, areas exceeding 22,500 ft2 (2090 m2), or areas
N zone be provided on the exterior of the building. The audible                            inconsistent with the established detection system zoning
                                                                                           should be annunciated individually.
and visual notification appliances located at the building                          (4) In-duct smoke detectors on air-handling systems that
entrances could serve as a warning to prevent occupant re-                                 serve multiple floors, areas exceeding 22,500 ft2
                                                                                           (2090 m2), or areas inconsistent with the established
O entry.                                                                                   detection system zoning should be annunciated individu-
                                                                                           ally.
A.10.15.9 The purpose of automatic trouble re-sound is to                           (5) If a floor area exceeds 22,500 ft2 (2090 m2), additional
                                                                                           zoning should be provided. The length of any zone
E remind owners, or those responsible for the system, that the                             should not exceed 300 ft (91 m) in any direction. If the
S system remains in a fault condition. A secondary benefit is to                           building is provided with automatic sprinklers through-
                                                                                           out, the area of the alarm zone should be permitted to
possibly alert occupants of the building that the fire alarm                               coincide with the allowable area of the sprinkler zone.
                                                                                    A.10.19.1 Amplifiers generally require significant power
U system is in a fault condition.                                                   regardless of load. To reduce the secondary power demand,
                                                                                    there is no requirement to monitor the integrity of amplifiers
A.10.15.10.7 In large, campus-style arrangements with propri-                       during non-alarm operation on secondary power. This allows
                                                                                    the amplifiers to be shut down while the system is operating on
L etary supervising stations monitoring protected premises                          secondary power until an alarm occurs. When an alarm occurs,
                                                                                    monitoring of integrity must resume so that an operator is
systems, and in other situations where off-premises monitoring                      aware of current conditions and so that any backup amplifiers
                                                                                    can be engaged.
A achieves the desired result, the authority having jurisdiction is                    Backup amplifying and evacuation signal­generating equip-
                                                                                    ment is recommended with automatic transfer upon primary
permitted to allow the reactivation to occur only at the super-                     equipment failure to ensure prompt restoration of service in
                                                                                    the event of equipment failure.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U vising station. Approval by the authority having jurisdiction isA.10.21 The term impairments encompasses a broad range of
                                                                                    circumstances wherein a system or portion thereof is taken out
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} required so it can consider all fire safety issues and make a  of service for a variety of reasons. Systems are routinely

ID determination that there are procedures in place to ensure

that the intent is met; in other words, someone is available to

IV take action to correct the problem.

A.10.16.2 The operability of controlled mechanical equip-
ment (e.g., smoke and fire dampers, elevator recall arrange-

D ments, and door holders) should be verified by periodic

testing. Failure to test and properly maintain controlled

IN mechanical equipment can result in operational failure during

an emergency, with potential consequences up to and includ-
ing loss of life.

R A.10.17.2 Initially this requirement was meant to apply to noti-

fication appliance circuits (NACs) emanating from a single fire

O alarm control unit and did not contemplate the use of NAC
Fextender panels. Acknowledging the control circuit concept
                                                                                    impaired to allow hot work (e.g., open flame operations) to be
                                                                                    performed in areas with automatic detection, construction,
                                                                                    painting, and so forth, as well as to conduct normal system
 Table A.10.11.4 Recommended Coded Signal Designations                              maintenance and testing. Impairments can be limited to

        Location                           Coded                                    specific initiating devices and/or functions (e.g., disconnecting
                                           Signal                                   the supervising station connection during system testing), or
                                                                                    they can involve taking entire systems or portions of systems
                                                                                    out of service. Section 10.21 is intended to help building
Fourth floor                               2­4                                      owners control impairments of the system(s) in their build-
Third floor                                2­3                                      ing(s) and to ensure that systems are restored to full operation
Second floor                               2­2                                      and/or returned to service afterward.
First floor                                2­1
Basement                                   3­1
                                                                                    Additional requirements for impairments and out-of-service
Sub-basement                               3­2                                      conditions are in 14.2.2.2.

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

              ANNEX A                                                                                                   72-217

A.10.21.4 It is important for the authority having jurisdiction,                        A.12.3 The intent of the circuit designations is not to create a
typically the local fire official, to be informed when systems                          hierarchal ranking; rather it is to provide guidance on the
have been out of service for more than 8 hours so that appro-                           levels of performance.
priate measures can be taken. The term out of service is meant to
refer to the entire system or a substantial portion thereof.                               Users of the Chapter 12 designations should review whether
                                                                                        there are other abnormal conditions not specified in Chap-
A.10.21.5 The need for mitigating measures is typically deter-                          ter 12 that the pathways need to annunciate and operate
mined on a case-by-case basis. This considers the building,                             through for their application.
occupancy type, nature and duration of impairment, building
occupancy level during impairment period, active work being                             A.12.3.1 Fiber-optic or wireless pathways are examples of
conducted on the fire alarm system during the impairment,                               Class A circuitry not impaired by earth ground connection or
condition of other fire protection systems and features (i.e.,                          short-circuits and therefore do not annunciate those conditions
sprinklers, structural compartmentation, etc.), and hazards and                         as a fault.

   assets at risk.                                                                         A.12.3.3 Class C is intended to describe technologies that
       Appropriate mitigating measures range from simple occu-                             supervise the communication pathway by polling or continuous
                                                                                           communication "handshaking," such as the following:
Y pant notification to full-time fire watch. Determining factors                           (1) Fire alarm control unit or supervising station connections

   vary from testing-related impairments and maintenance activi-                                   to a wired LAN, WAN, or Internet
                                                                                           (2) Fire alarm control unit or supervising station connections
L ties during normal business through extensive impairments to
                                                                                                   to a wireless LAN, WAN, and Internet
   high-value, high-hazard situations.                                                     (3) Fire alarm control unit digital alarm communicator trans-

N A.10.22 See 3.3.314 for the definitions of unwanted alarms.                                      mitter or supervising station digital alarm communicator
O A.12.2.1 In the 2007 edition of NFPA 72, initiating device                                       receiver connections to the public switched telephone
                                                                                                   network
   circuit, signaling line circuit, and notification appliance circuit                         Individual pathway segments are not required to be moni-
                                                                                           tored. Supervision is accomplished by end-to-end communica-
E performance class/style tables were rooted in "copper" wiring                            tions.
                                                                                           A.12.3.4 Class D is intended to describe pathways that are not
   methods. Fire alarm control units use new communications                                supervised but have a fail-safe operation that performs the
                                                                                           intended function when the connection is lost. Examples of
S technologies, such as Ethernet, fiber optics, and wireless, which                        such pathways include the following:
                                                                                           (1) Power to door holders where interruption of the power
   do not fit in the "copper" wiring methods.                                                      results in the door closing
                                                                                           (2) Power to locking hardware that release upon an open
U  A.12.2.3.2 Fire alarm systems include fire detection and alarm                                  circuit or fire alarm operation
   notification, guard's tour, sprinkler waterflow, and sprinkler                          A.12.3.5 Class E is intended to describe pathways that do not
L supervisory systems. Circuits controlled and powered by the fire                         require supervision as described in Section 12.6.
   alarm system include circuits for the control of building                             A.12.3.6(1) The Class N pathway designation is added to
A systems safety functions, elevator capture, elevator shutdown,                           specifically address the use of modern network infrastructure
   door release, smoke doors and damper control, fire doors and                            when used in fire alarm and emergency communication
                                                                                           systems.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U damper control, and fan shutdown, but only where these                     Class N networks can be specified for ancillary functions but
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} circuits are powered by and controlled by the fire alarm system.   are not required for supplemental reporting described in
                                                                                           23.12.4. [See Figure A.23.12.4.]
   [70:760.1 Informational Note No. 1]                                                         Ethernet network devices are addressable but with an impor-
                                                                                           tant distinction from device addresses on a traditional SLC
 IV Class 1, 2, and 3 circuits are defined in Article 725 (of                              multi-drop loop. A device with an Ethernet address is, in most
                                                                                           cases, a physical endpoint connected to a dedicated cable.
   NFPA 70). [70:760.1 Informational Note No. 2]                                           Traditional SLC devices are all wired on the same communica-
   A.12.2.3.3 It is important for the intended functionality of                            tion line (in parallel), similar to an old party-line telephone
                                                                                           system. By comparison, Ethernet's network switches direct each
D circuit integrity cable or electrical circuit protective systems to

   follow manufacturer's installation instructions. An electrical

IN circuit protective system has detailed installation requirements,

   and additional requirements can be found in the manufactur-
   er's installation instructions, NFPA 70 or the listing organiza-

R tions' guide information.

   A.12.2.3.4 In the event of an introduction of a fault and subse-

Oquent alarm condition, operational ability should be restored
Fwithin 200 seconds, and the alarm condition received at the

   fire alarm control unit is to be within 10 seconds after the expi-
   ration of the 200 seconds. Any subsequent alarms initiated after
   the initial 200-second window should be actuated in accord-
   ance with 10.11.1.

A.12.2.4.3 Technologies that do not use metallic conductors                             data packet to its intended recipient device like our modern
(e.g., wireless or optical fiber) are not affected by ground                            phone systems.

connections.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-218         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Class N uses redundant paths as a means to compensate for                            A Class N network can be made more reliable with physically
Ethernet wiring that does not report a single connection to                          distinct pathway segments (i.e., an alternate conduit, or cable
ground, a basic requirement of Class B. Thus, the physical sepa-                     tray route, or wireless transmission frequency range, or a
ration of Class A and Class X, and equipment redundancy                              combination of distinct media). In addition to the required
described in 12.3.7, is not inherently required of Class N. In                       primary segments and redundant segments, a Class N pathway
other words, failure of a single switch is permitted take down a                     is permitted to have nonrequired segments. [See Figure
class N segment and is only required to report the loss of                           A.12.3.6(1)(c).] Additional nonrequired pathway segments are
communication. Where redundant path segments are intended                            allowed to be connected and not independently monitored for
to have survivability similar to Class A or Class X, the physical                    integrity as long as two paths are monitored to meet the redun-
separation requirements and overall equipment redundancy                             dancy requirement of Class N.
must be specified in addition to the Class N designation.
                                                                                     Traditionally, NFPA has used the word device for input
As a visual model, Class N could be likened to a redundant                           components and the term appliance for components used in
pathway backbone, allowed to have Class C branch paths to                            notification. With respect to Class N, the term device includes
single endpoint devices. Therefore, every effort is made in this                     appliances and other intelligent, addressable components that
section to clearly distinguish the single endpoint device from                       perform a programmable input or output function. Examples
                                                                                     of Class N devices include the following:
Y the transport equipment required to have redundant paths.                          (1) Input components such as alarm initiating modules
L Class N requires redundant, monitored pathway segments to
                                                                                            switches and sensors
and from control equipment (fire alarm control units, ACUs,                          (2) Output components such as output modules, Ethernet

N or ECCUs) where any interruption in communications could                                  loudspeakers (i.e., IEEE 802.3af PoE loudspeakers), intel-
                                                                                            ligent visual notification appliances (strobes), textual
potentially affect multiple endpoint devices. Typically, intercon-                          signage, and intelligent audio amplifiers
                                                                                        Transmission equipment components (e.g., media convert-
O nected communications equipment such as Ethernet switches,                         ers, Ethernet switches, patch panels, cross-connects) are
                                                                                     connected to the Class N pathway merely to transport instruc-
wireless repeaters, or media converters are used in combina-                         tions between other equipment. As such, they are not consid-
                                                                                     ered devices with respect to Class N pathways.
E tion to create pathways. Chapter 12 describes the required                            The audio amplifier listed above is an example of an
                                                                                     addressable device that can receive a digital audio input from
behavior of Class N pathways. All equipment must meet the                            the Class N pathway and then provide a notification appliance
                                                                                     circuit (NAC) output with Class A, B, or X pathways. Other
S requirements of other chapters in NFPA 72 (such as, but not                        endpoint devices can similarly provide alternate class pathways
                                                                                     for visual notification appliances (strobes) (NACs) or initiating
limited to, requirements pertaining to secondary power                               devices (IDCs). From the perspective of the Class N pathway,
                                                                                     communications terminate at this endpoint device. However,
U supplies, equipment listings, and environment conditions).                         since these types of endpoints can support multiple notification
   Redundant pathways, isolated from ground, are actually                            appliance devices or initiating devices, path segments are
                                                                                     subject to the redundant pathway requirement unless protec-
L common practice in robust Ethernet designs. Managed                                ted in an enclosure or raceway less than 20 ft (6 m) in length.
                                                                                     (See 12.6.9.) [See Figure A.12.3.6(1)(c).]
network switches commonly have specific uplink ports that are                           Class N connections between control equipment are
                                                                                     required to have redundant monitored pathway segments if a
A intended for load sharing and allow two parallel connections.                      failure of a primary pathway segment in between control equip-
                                                                                     ment could impair the operation of the control equipment.
For compliance with Class N, a trouble must be reported if                           [See Figure A.12.3.6(1)(d).]
                                                                                        Class N is also permitted to include dual port devices that
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U either of these connections fails. [See Figure A.12.3.6(1)(a) andprovide both transmission and input/output functions.

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Figure A.12.3.6(1)(b).]

ID Class N pathways can use metallic conductor communica-

tions cable, such as a 100 ohm balanced twisted pair (e.g., Cate-

IV gory 5E), including single-pair or multi-pair cable, or other

communications media, such as optical fiber cable or wireless

D transmission, or a combination of two or more such transport

mediums.

IN Where a conductor-based media is used for Class N, the

intention is not to monitor faults on individual conductors but
rather to monitor the operational capability and performance

R of the pathway as a whole. Similar to Class C, end-to-end verifi-

cation is used in Class N.

O Primary and required redundant pathways are independ-
Fently and continuously verified for their ability to support end-
to-end communications to and from each endpoint device and                           Endpoint devices can have multiple connection ports and
                                                                                     support dual pathway segment connections; thus the term
its associated control equipment. Pathway segments that service                      endpoint device is not intended to prohibit more than one
more than one device must have at least one verified redun-
dant pathway segment. Should any primary pathway segment                             connection to a device. Even with dual connections, where
                                                                                     other devices depend on the path, primary and redundant
fail, communication is supported by the redundant pathway                            paths are required. But, where an endpoint device has two
segment(s.) Failure of either a primary or redundant pathway                         connection ports, and when a secondary nonrequired connec-
will indicate a trouble.                                                             tion is added, there is no requirement to separately supervise
                                                                                     the nonrequired redundant pathway segment. [See Figure
Redundant pathway segments are generally independent
and do not normally share media with the primary pathways.
However, there are exceptions, such as different frequencies                         A.12.3.6(1)(e).]

for wireless components, or ring topologies. [See Figure
A.12.3.6(5).]

2019 Edition   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                  ANNEX A                                                                           72-219

FACU,    Switch                                   Switch
ACU, or
ECCU

                                                                            Endpoint devices

         Redundant cables must have special functionality in order to
             monitor integrity when a secondary path is not in use.

FIGURE A.12.3.6(1)(a) Class N Pathway Block Diagram ­ Example 1.

LY FACU,                                          Switch
N ACU, or                                         Switch
E O ECCU
         Switch                                                             Endpoint devices
                   Nonrequired redundant
                          path segment

         Switch
          AL US Endpoint devices
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U FIGURE A.12.3.6(1)(b) Class N Pathway Block Diagram ­ Example 2.
                                                                            Endpoint devices
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 20 ft (6 m) maximum inside
IV enclosure or raceway
                   Primary and    20 ft (6 m) maximum inside
                 redundant paths     enclosure or raceway
 IND FACU,
                                                  Endpoint
           ACU, or                                 device

FOR ECCU                                          Network
                                                  interface

         Switch                           Switch                       Amp

                                                                                     Same enclosure or interconnected  Loudspeaker
                                                                                          raceways within 20 ft (6 m)   appliances

 FIGURE A.12.3.6(1)(c) Class N Pathway to Endpoint with Multiple Devices.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-220                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

20 ft (6 m) maximum inside                                            than one device. In this arrangement, primary and redundant

      enclosure or raceway                                            pathway segments share the same media, and provide two

               Switch                                                 possible directions of communications in a ring topology [see
                                                                      Figure A.12.3.6(5)]. This daisy-chain configuration is also
                                                                      permitted between multiple control units that require verified
                            FACU,                                     primary and redundant pathway segments.
                            ACU, or

               Switch       ECCU                                      A.12.3.8 A goal of 12.3.8 is to provide adequate separation
                                                                      between the outgoing and return cables. This separation is
      FACU,                                                           required to help ensure protection of the cables from physical
      ACU, or                                                         damage. The recommended minimum separation to prevent
      ECCU

               Switch                FACU,                            physical damage is 12 in. (300 mm) where the cable is installed
                                     ACU, or                          vertically and 48 in. (1.22 m) where the cable is installed hori-
                                                                                  ECCU

Y FIGURE A.12.3.6(1)(d) Class N Pathway Block Diagram
L with Multiple Control Units.
E ON To FACU                                                          zontally.
               US Switch                                              A.12.3.8.1(3) This exception would not permit an entire room
 L A nonrequired redundant cable to an endpoint device isEndpoint devicesof emergency control function interface devices controlled by
             permitted and does not require separate supervision.     the fire alarm system to be installed on a circuit where the feed
                                                                      and return legs are installed in the same raceway for rooms
A FIGURE A.12.3.6(1)(e) Class N Pathway Block Diagram with            smaller than 1000 ft2 (93 m2) in area.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Device with Dual Pathway Connection.
                                                                         Where a circuit enters a room that contains emergency
                                                                      control function interface devices (e.g., control modules/relays
                                                                      connected to and programmed to shut down HVAC units and
                                                                      other fire and life safety control functions), loss of both "legs"
                                                                      of this circuit could disable important fire and life safety
                                                                      control functions that might be essential for prevention of
                                                                      circulation of smoke or another required operation, such as
                                                                      elevator recall functions.
                                                                      A.12.4 The intent of the pathway survivability designation is to
                                                                      provide options for the protection of the pathway circuits and
                                                                      not to create a hierarchical ranking. Other chapters within
                                                                      NFPA 72 or other code-making jurisdictions can select the
                                                                      survivability option that best meets their needs.
                                                                      A.12.4.3 Methods of survivability protection might alternate
                                                                      within a protected premise. For example, 2-hour fire-resistive
                                                                      cable might extend from a 2-hour fire-resistance-rated enclo-
                                                                      sure.

                                                                         Fire alarm system notification appliances, control modules,
                                                                      jacks, and initiating devices are not capable of resisting attack
                                                                      by fire. Connecting these devices to circuits that require surviv-
                                                                      ability and span multiple zones or floors, will result in a circuit
                                                                      that is no longer survivable. For example, two-way, in-building
                                                                      communications system (fire fighter's telephone) jacks that are
                                                                      connected to a circuit serving multiple floors could be shorted
                                                                      by the fire. It is recommended that a Level 2 or Level 3 surviva-
                                                                      ble circuit serving multiple zones or floors be installed as
                                                                      Class X or Class N or those circuits be designed to serve a
                                                                      single fire zone.
                                                                      A.12.4.3(4) A performance-based alternative is needed
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.12.3.6(4) Operational conditions of the pathway include

factors such as latency, throughput, response time, arrival rate,

IV utilization, bandwidth, and loss. Life safety equipment connec-

ted to a Class N network actively monitors some or all of the
pathway's operational conditions so that an improperly instal-

D led or configured pathway or a subsequently degraded pathway

or segment is detected by the life safety equipment and repor-

IN ted as a trouble. The trouble condition is reported when opera-

tional conditions of the pathway(s) have deteriorated to the
point where the equipment is no longer capable of meeting its

R minimum performance requirements, even if some level of

communication to devices is still maintained. Performance

O requirements include the activation of an alarm within

10 seconds, the reporting of a trouble signal within

F200 seconds, and delivery of audio messages with required
intelligibility. End-to-end communications might be opera-            because it is possible to construct a nonsprinklered,
tional under system idle conditions, but in the event of an
alarm, the increased load on a degraded pathway could cause a
partial or complete failure to deliver required life safety signals.  To FACU

Such predictable failure must be actively detected and repor-
ted.
                                                                               Switch  Switch

A.12.3.6(5) Devices with dual path connections are permitted                                                           Endpoint devices
to be connected in a daisy-chain of devices on a ring. Again,                                                          with dual pathway
where Class N pathway segments support multiple devices, veri-
fied redundant pathway segment(s) are required. This can be                                                                connectors
accomplished with a ring topology, as long as each segment of
the ring is verified as functional, and the failure of any one             Communications continue from either direction in a ring topology.
segment does not result in the loss of functionality of more
                                                                      FIGURE A.12.3.6(5) Class N Pathway Block Diagram with
                                                                      Daisy-Chained Devices with Dual Pathway Connection.

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                         ANNEX A                                                                                   72-221

Type V(000) building that employs relocation or partial evacua-                                       as they might not know what the maximum average or peak
tion (e.g., a single-story ambulatory health care occupancy)                                          noise levels are. They need only measure the system and deter-
that would not warrant either a 2-hour fire-resistive-rated enclo-                                    mine if it meets the required design level. Therefore, the
sure or a 2-hour cable. Examples of performance alternatives                                          design level needs to be documented and communicated to
that might be considered in a design for survivability are a stra-                                    them.
tegic application of Class A, Class X, or Class N segments and
also wireless communications pathways.                                                                   Acceptance and re-acceptance testing includes proper opera-
                                                                                                      tion, and non-operation, of the fire alarm or signaling system's
N A.12.4.4 See A.12.4.3.                                                                              ability to properly interface to other systems. The best way to
                                                                                                         ensure a proper interface operation is to observe the actual
   A.12.4.4(4) A performance-based alternative is needed                                                 operation of the interfaced system. However, exercising an
   because it is possible to construct a sprinklered single-story                                        emergency control function every time a related initiating
   Type V(111) or multistory Type II(111) building that employs                                          device is actuated might not be desirable or practical, or in
   relocation or partial evacuation (e.g., a health care occupancy)                                      some cases may not even be permitted. NFPA 72 permits testing
   that would not warrant either a 2-hour fire-resistive-rated enclo-                                    of the fire alarm or signaling system up to the end point
   sure or a 2-hour cable (a 1-hour enclosure would suffice).                                            connection to the interfaced system or emergency control
                                                                                                         function. Refer to A.14.4.3.2 Table 14.4.3.2 Item 24.
Y Examples of performance alternatives that might be consid-                                             A.14.2.1.3 Visual inspections contribute to the assurance of
                                                                                                         operational and mission reliability but do not ensure either.
   ered in a design for survivability are a strategic application of                                     A.14.2.1.4 Periodic testing of fire alarm and signaling systems
                                                                                                         is not necessarily done as a complete system test. NFPA 72
L Class A, Class X, or Class N segments and also wireless commu-                                         requires parts of the systems to be tested at different frequen-
                                                                                                         cies. At any one particular test, only a fraction of the system can
   nications pathways.                                                                                   be tested. Periodic testing contributes to the assurance of
                                                                                                         operational and mission reliability but does not ensure either.
N A.12.5 Shared pathway designations propose a list of shared
O pathways, some of which are only allowable for nonrequired                                                Periodic testing of the interface between a fire alarm or
                                                                                                         signaling system in some other system or emergency control
   functions. Other sections of this Code determine which of the                                         function is permitted by NFPA 72 to be performed without
   shared pathways are allowed to be used as paths for required                                          actually operating the interfaced system or function. Refer to
                                                                                                         A.14.4.3.2 Table 14.4.3.2 Item 24.
E fire alarm signaling. Refer to 23.8.2.6 for shared communica-                                       N A.14.2.2.1.2 Testing should be performed in such a way that
                                                                                                         testing personnel can promptly respond to signals as they are
   tions requirements.                                                                                   initiated during testing and can ensure that devices are report-
                                                                                                         ing with the correct locations and addresses, programming
S A.12.5.1 In a Shared Pathway Level 0, common equipment                                                 errors are not overlooked, ground faults are acknowledged
U can be used to establish life safety and non­life safety pathways.                                     promptly, and fire and trouble/supervisory signals are respon-
                                                                                                         ded to immediately when signals are not related to the testing
   A.12.5.2 In a Shared Pathway Level 1, common equipment                                                taking place.
                                                                                                         A.14.2.3.1 See definition of Ownership in 3.3.195.
L can be used to establish life safety and non­life safety pathways.                                     A.14.2.3.6 Service personnel should be able to do the follow-
A A.12.5.3 In a Shared Pathway Level 2, common equipment                                                 ing:
                                                                                                         (1) Understand the requirements contained in NFPA 72 and
   can be used to establish life safety and non­life safety pathways.
                                                                                                                the fire alarm requirements contained in NFPA 70
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.12.5.4 In a Shared Pathway Level 3, life safety equipment is   (2) Understand basic job site safety laws and requirements
ID not shared with equipment of non­life safety systems.                                                 (3) Apply troubleshooting techniques, and determine the

   A.12.6 The provision of a double loop or other multiple path                                                 cause of fire alarm system trouble conditions
                                                                                                         (4) Understand equipment specific requirements, such as
IV conductor or circuit to avoid electrical monitoring is not

   acceptable.

D A.12.6.8 This Code does not have jurisdiction over the moni-

   toring integrity of conductors within equipment, devices, or

IN appliances.

   A.12.7 The nomenclature described in Section 12.7 can be
   found on drawings, specifications, and the actual installed

R circuits. Some examples of the nomenclature are X.2.3, A, B.3.

   A.14.2.1.1 Initial and re-acceptance inspections are

Operformed to ensure compliance with approved design docu-
Fments whatever the quality or origin. This involves inspection
to ensure that the correct equipment has been used and prop-                                          programming, application, and compatibility
erly located and installed. Ensuring compliance helps to assure                                       (5) Read and interpret fire alarm system design documenta-
both operational reliability and mission reliability. This concept                                    tion and manufacturer's inspection, testing, and mainte-
applies to any type of system, not just fire alarm and signaling                                      nance guidelines
systems. At this stage of a system's life, the responsibilities for                                   (6) Properly use tools and test equipment required for test-
such inspections rest with the designers of the systems and with                                      ing and maintenance of fire alarm systems and their
the various applicable authorities having jurisdiction.                                               components
                                                                                                      (7) Properly apply the test methods required by NFPA 72
A.14.2.1.2 If a system is designed to meet a specific mission or
set of goals, then operational testing will assure that the system                                    A.14.2.4 Prior to any scheduled inspection or testing, the serv-
has mission reliability. For example, during acceptance testing,                                      ice company should consult with the building or system owner
the design ambient noise level might not be present. Authori-                                         or the owner's designated representative. Issues of advance
ties having jurisdiction and technicians should not be trying to                                      notification in certain occupancies, including advance notifica-
achieve the +5/15 dB or +5/10 dB requirements at acceptance,                                          tion time, building posting, systems interruption and restora-

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-222                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

tion, evacuation procedures, accommodation for evacuees, and                    an annual to a semiannual testing when the failure rate
other related issues, should be agreed upon by all parties prior                exceeds the authority having jurisdiction's expectations, or
to any inspection or testing.                                                   from annual to every 18 months when the failure trend indi-
                                                                                cates an increase in reliability.
A.14.2.7.1 As an example, testing of the elevator fire service
and shutdown functions will usually require a coordinated                       See also NFPA 551 for additional guidance.
multi-discipline effort with presence of qualified service person-
nel for the fire alarm system, the elevator system, and other                    A.14.2.10 The test plan is intended to clarify exactly what is to
building systems. The presence of inspection authorities might                     be tested and how it is to be tested. Testing of fire alarm and
also be needed in some jurisdictions. The development of a test                    signaling systems is often done in a segmented fashion to
plan should be considered to ensure that the testing of these                      accommodate the availability of testing or other personnel or
features is accomplished in a coordinated and timely manner.                       to minimize the interruption of building operations. Where a
This plan should also ensure that all appropriate parties and                      building owner has contracted the performance of inspection,
personnel are present when needed, and that the testing                            testing, and maintenance activities to outside entities, the test
requirements for both the fire alarm system and the elevator                       plan, what will and will not be tested, should be reviewed by
system are fulfilled. See Section 21.3 and Section 21.4 for                        those parties. Building operations can be affected by testing of
                                                                                   the fire alarm or signaling system itself and by the operation of
Y specific elevator emergency control functions.                                   emergency control functions actuated by the fire alarm or
L A.14.2.9 This section provides the option to adopt a                             signaling system. The boundary of the fire alarm or signaling
                                                                                   system extends up to and includes the emergency control func-
performance-based inspection and testing method as an alter-                       tion interface device. The testing requirements prescribed in
                                                                                   NFPA 72 for fire alarm and signaling systems end at the emer-
N nate means of compliance for Sections 14.3 and 14.4. The                         gency control function interface device. The purpose of the
                                                                                   test plan is to document what devices will and will not actually
prescriptive test and requirements contained in this Code are                      be tested.
                                                                                       The testing of emergency control functions, releasing
O essentially qualitative. Equivalent or superior levels of perform-               systems, or interfaced equipment is outside the scope of
                                                                                   NFPA 72. Requirements for testing other systems are found in
ance can be demonstrated through quantitative performance-                         other governing laws, codes, or standards. Requirements for
                                                                                   integrated testing of combined systems also fall under the
E based analyses. This section provides a basis for implementing                   authority of other governing laws, codes, standards, or author-
                                                                                   ity having jurisdiction. NFPA 3 provides guidance for such test-
and monitoring a performance-based program acceptable                              ing. NFPA 3 recognizes the importance of the development of
                                                                                   an integrated testing plan.
S under this option (provided that approval is obtained by the                         Further information on testing associated with emergency
                                                                                   control functions can be found in Table 14.4.3.2, Item 24 and
authority having jurisdiction). The concept of a performance-                      its related annex material in A.14.4.3.2.
                                                                                   A.14.3.1 Equipment performance can be affected by building
U based inspection and testing program is to establish the                         modifications, occupancy changes, changes in environmental
                                                                                   conditions, device location, physical obstructions, device orien-
requirements and frequencies at which inspection and testing                       tation, physical damage, improper installation, degree of clean-
                                                                                   liness, or other obvious problems that might not be indicated
L must be performed to demonstrate an acceptable level of                          through electrical supervision.
                                                                                       The intent of 14.3.1 is to prevent an inspection being made
operational reliability. The goal is to balance the inspection                     at intervals exceeding those allowed by Table 14.3.1. Annual
                                                                                   inspections should be made every 12 months; monthly inspec-
A and testing frequency with proven reliability of the system or                   tions should be made every 30 days, and so forth. For example,
                                                                                   it is not acceptable to conduct an annual inspection in January
component. The goal of a performance-based inspection                              of year one, and December of year two (23 month frequency)

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U program is also to adjust inspection and testing frequencies

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} commensurate with historical documented equipment

ID performance and desired reliability. Frequencies of inspection

and testing under a performance-based program might be
extended or reduced from the prescriptive inspection and test-

IV ing requirements contained in this Code when continued

inspection and testing has been documented indicating a
higher or lower degree of reliability as compared to the author-

D ity having jurisdiction's expectations of performance. Addi-

tional program attributes should be considered when adjusting

IN inspection and testing.
   A fundamental requirement of a performance-based
program is the continual monitoring of fire system/component

R failure rates and determining if they exceed the maximum

allowable failure rates as agreed upon with the authority having

O jurisdiction. The process used to complete this review should
Fbe documented and be repeatable. Coupled with this ongoing
review is a requirement for a formalized method of increasing                   just because Table 14.3.1 requires an inspection once each year.

or decreasing the frequency of inspection and testing when                      A.14.4.2 Reacceptance testing is performed to verify the
systems exhibit either a higher than expected failure rate or an                proper operation of added or replaced devices, appliances,
increase in reliability as a result of a decrease in failures. A                emergency control function devices, control equipment, and so
formal process for reviewing the failure rates and increasing or                forth. It is not the intent of the committee to unduly burden
decreasing the frequency of inspection and testing must be well                 the system owner with increased costs for repeated testing of
documented. Concurrence from the authority having jurisdic-                     devices not directly affected by the replacement of devices with
tion on the process used to determine test frequencies should                   like devices.
be obtained in advance of any alterations to the inspection and
testing program. The frequency required for future inspections                  For example, if a 2 amp fuse is replaced with another 2 amp
and tests might be reduced to the next inspection frequency                     fuse in the fire alarm control unit, verification of the circuit(s)
and maintained there for a period equaling the initial data                     served by the fused supply is required, but it would not be
review or until the ongoing review indicates that the failure                   necessary to test 10 percent of initiating devices not directly
rate is no longer being exceeded -- for example, going from                     affected by replacing the fuse. Likewise, it is not necessary to

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                      ANNEX A                                                                                72-223

test all these initiating devices whenever a smoke detector is                       change in the internal ohmic values. A measured increase in
replaced with a like smoke detector.                                                 impedance or resistance, or a decrease in conductance, indi-
                                                                                     cates the battery is losing its ability to produce the energy it was
   When wiring changes are made to correct improperly super-                         designed to deliver when called upon to support the connected
vised circuits, a test of the affected device or appliance is                        loads.
required, but not a test of 10 percent of initiating devices not
directly affected.                                                                   The key to effective application of ohmic testing is the
                                                                                     appropriate trending of test results over time compared to a
   A.14.4.3 Fire alarm system testing can be conducted using                         baseline or reference value. Studies have demonstrated that an
   silent testing and the bypassing of emergency control func-                       individual battery produces a unique ohmic "signature" and
   tions. All input signals should be verified according to the                      the use of ohmic testing equipment to trend changes in this
   system matrix of operation to ensure they create the appropri-                    signature from installation through the life of the battery is the
   ate outputs. Tests of audible notification appliances and emer-                   most effective use of the technology. A program that involves
   gency control functions should be conducted at the conclusion                     ohmic testing on a regular interval to note changes in the
   of satisfactory tests of all inputs.                                              battery is a good maintenance practice.

       The intent is to reduce the amount of time spent causing                         An ohmic baseline reference value is a benchmark value
                                                                                     based on data collected from known good batteries. Reference
Y audible and visual occupant notification during tests in an                        values can be determined from site-specific measurement, or
L occupied building. This reduction will help reduce the nega-                       from testing a sample of new healthy batteries, or by using a
                                                                                     generic baseline value to get started.
   tive (cry wolf) impact on occupants caused by excessive opera-                    (1) The best baseline is one established on the installed

N tion of notification appliances. System printouts or history logs                         battery within three to six months after installation and
                                                                                            trend accordingly using good record keeping. Ideally the
   are an effective way of verifying the correct receipt of signals.                        individual ohmic value should be measured at installation
                                                                                            and again after the battery has been on float charge for at
O However, many outputs such as occupant notification and                                   least 72 hours in order for it to reach a high state of stabi-
                                                                                            lization. These initial "site-specific" values should be
   emergency control functions are tested for correct operation,                            recorded and permanently affixed to the battery as a
   because logs do not necessarily verify operation of the system                           baseline for subsequent tests over the life of the battery.
                                                                                            The ohmic value will typically increase for conductance
E output. Operation of audible and visual notification appliances                           and decrease for resistance and impedance between the
                                                                                            initial installation and after being on float-charge for 90
   could be accomplished in a lump sum fashion after all inputs                             to 180 days (10 percent to 15 percent depending on
                                                                                            battery type and size). Six months after installation meas-
S are proven correct by silent testing. All inputs tested in this                           ure and compare the ohmic readings to the readings
                                                                                            taken at installation. Use whichever value is greater for
   manner must be proved to cause the appropriate signal by veri-                           conductance or lower for resistance and impedance as
                                                                                            the baseline for that particular battery at that site going
U fying alarm receipt at the controls as each device is actuated.                           forward.
                                                                                     (2) A sample of new healthy batteries in a fully charged state
   Manufacturer-specific protocols such as "walk test" or "alarm                            can be tested to obtain a baseline value representative of
                                                                                            a new battery. A sample size of at least 30 batteries from
L bypass" are an acceptable means of testing under this section.                            one manufacturer with the same make, model, amp-hour
                                                                                            rating, age (within 6 months), and manufacturing lot is
   Other methods of mitigating the negative impact include off-                             recommended. Record the following information for the
                                                                                            batteries:
A hours tests when the building is not occupied.                                            (a) Battery manufacturer
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.14.4.3.1 If the authority having jurisdiction strongly suspects       (b) Model number
                                                                                            (c) Date of manufacture
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} significant deterioration or otherwise improper operation by a        (d) Manufacturing lot number (if available)

ID central station, a surprise inspection to test the operation of

   the central station should be made, but extreme caution
   should be exercised. This test is to be conducted without advis-

IV ing the central station. However, the communications center

   must be contacted when manual alarms, waterflow alarms, or

D automatic fire detection systems are tested so that the fire

   department will not respond. In addition, persons normally

IN receiving calls for supervisory alarms should be notified when

   items such as gate valves and functions such as pump power are
   tested. Confirmation of the authenticity of the test procedure
   should be obtained and should be a matter for resolution

R between plant management and the central station.

 A.14.4.3.2 Table 14.4.3.2 Item 9(4). Ohmic testing is a means

Oto determine the state of health of a VRLA battery's cells by
Fmeasuring some form of a cell's internal resistance. Typically
ohmic testing equipment uses one of three techniques --                              (e) Battery temperature
conductance, impedance, or resistance -- to make these meas-                         (f) Whether or not the battery has had a freshening
urements.                                                                            charge
                                                                                     (g) Battery voltage
   In simplest technical terms, ohmic technology is based on                         (h) Ohmic test value
Ohm's Law, which expresses the relationship between volts,
amperes, and ohms in an electrical circuit. Ohmic testing                            Calculate the average ohmic value of the batteries. Do
attempts to use voltage and current to determine the resistive                       not include batteries that deviate more than 30 percent
characteristic of a battery's cells. As the cells in a battery age                   from the average because they could be outside of an
and start to lose capacity, the internal components of the                           acceptable range. Use the average value as a baseline
battery are undergoing a degradation process. The degrada-                           starting point for this model battery.
tion of these components (plates, grids, internal connection                         (3) A generic baseline value for a specific battery model can
straps) within the battery's cells causes an increased resistance                    often be found by contacting the ohmic test equipment
in the conduction paths of the cell, which in turn causes a                          manufacturer or from the battery manufacturer. While it

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-224                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

is important to note that the use of generic reference                        manufacturer for the battery model. If it is not, it is
values might not be as accurate, it is still possible to iden-                likely that the batteries have recently been discharged
tify grossly failed batteries and significant changes in                      and a test is not appropriate until this float current
battery condition by applying this method. Generic base-                      stabilizes.
line values are typical averages to be used as general                        (6) Whenever possible, ohmic readings should be taken
guidelines and should only be used when no other data is                      each time with the same instrument, but as a minimum
available. When testing older batteries for which no initial                  with the same model. Changing models will skew the
site-specific ohmic value is available, reference values can                  data and require re-establishing the baseline.
be obtained in the following ways:                                            (7) When test equipment is provided with an alert, set the
                                                                                      ohmic baseline and/or thresholds prior to beginning
       (a) Contact the equipment or battery manufacturer for                          the test to provide an indication of any deviations from
              assistance.                                                             baseline.
                                                                               (8) It is essential to take ohmic measurements at the battery
       (b) Consult your company documentation to see if                               terminal or post. For consistency and accuracy, subse-
              reference values were created for the battery you                       quent tests should always have probes or clamps placed
              are testing.                                                            at the same point while avoiding battery hardware such
                                                                                      as bolt heads or washers. Connecting on the hardware
       (c) Using ohmic readings of recently installed batteries                       will influence the readings and could cause replacement
                                                                                      of a healthy battery.
  Y of the same manufacturer and model of the battery,                         (9) Maintain good contact at the test point for the duration
  L manufacturer and model of the alarm panel/                                        of the test. If the probe or clamp slips off during the test,
                                                                                      an incorrect reading will result.
              system, charging circuit, and temperature at time of            (10) For batteries with fully insulated quick disconnect
                                                                                      connectors, the battery should be taken offline by
  N measurements, calculate the average ohmic value of                                removing the quick disconnects from the battery termi-
                                                                                      nals and then measuring and recording the internal
              the best 8 to 10 batteries and use this value as a                      ohmic value of the battery.
              baseline reference.                                             (11) Do not condemn a battery based upon results of a single
                                                                                      test without any trending data or an established baseline
  O As a battery ages and loses capacity, the internal ohmic                          for that specific battery.
                                                                              (12) When one or more units in a battery falls outside the
       values change. Although the change might not be                                acceptable range from baseline, replace the entire
                                                                                      string.
 E perfectly consistent over all battery models and sizes,                    (13) A battery tested online can display a different value than
 S experience and extensive test data shows that a deviation                          when tested offline due to the charger circuit and load
                                                                                      being across the battery. Always test the same way, either
       of ohmic values from the established baseline by                               online or offline, to have consistent and meaningful
                                                                                      results. When ohmic testing is performed online, a
 U 30 percent or more for conductance and 40 percent or                               change in current occurs due to the ohmic test set signal
                                                                                      that could impact battery voltage readings. Because
       more for resistance or impedance indicates that the                            battery float voltage is directly tied to float current, the
       actual battery capacity has dropped to 80 percent or                           sum of the voltages of each battery cell/unit have to
                                                                                      equal the charger float voltage of the battery string. If a
 L lower. (For lead-acid batteries, capacity drops off rapidly                        load is applied from the ohmic test set that depresses
                                                                                      one cell/unit, then the others have to rise somewhat to
       once the 80 percent capacity point is reached in the life-                     offset it. As ohmic testing progresses through the battery
                                                                                      string, each cell/unit gets pulled down by the ohmic test
 A time curve, so this is known as the "knee" of the capacity                         set somewhat, and the charger must boost the string
                                                                                      current to maintain the voltage, raising the voltage of
       vs. lifetime curve). This 80 percent capacity is the level at                  the cells/units that have not yet been tested. For this
                                                                                      reason, voltage readings should be taken with a voltme-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U which battery manufacturers recommend battery replace-

  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ment. Figure A.14.4.3.2 illustrates an ohmic trend of a

 ID 5-year design life battery with an actual expected service

       life of 3 years. Note that while battery Unit #1 still has

 IV good ohmic readings, semiannual measurements show

       Unit #2 failing prematurely. For this case, it is desirable to
       replace both units at the same time. If one unit fails at

 D 212 years, it is likely the second unit will fail in one of the

       next semiannual tests. Full replacement ensures that all

 IN units will "float" together. One exception might be when

       a unit fails in the first year.
   Ohmic testing can be a safe, simple, accurate, and reliable

R means of determining the state of health of VRLA batteries. It

is important however to understand the following basic guide-

O lines in order to maximize the benefits and avoid possible
Fmisleading test results:
(1) Follow safety regulations: wear eye protection and                        ter prior to performing ohmic testing online.
      remove metal jewelry, and so forth prior to working with
      batteries.                                                    Table 14.4.3.2 Item 9(5). Battery capacity is determined by
(2) Conduct a visual inspection prior to testing. A cracked      the mass of active material contained in the battery and is a
      case, leaking terminal or post, or bulging battery should  measure of the battery's stored energy. The rated capacity of
      be replaced, not tested.                                   small VRLA batteries used in fire alarm and signaling system
(3) Temperature changes affect measured ohmic values and         applications is typically measured in ampere-hours (Ah) where
      battery capacity. Ohmic measurements should be taken       the ampere-hour rating is based on the battery's capability to
      at 77°F (25°C) ±13°F (7°C).                                provide a constant current at the nominal battery voltage for
(4) For maximum accuracy and consistency, batteries should       20 hours. The rated capacity might vary from manufacturer to
      be tested when in a fully charged state.                   manufacturer.

(5) Check the battery charging current prior to test. The           The actual battery capacity during service life, often referred
      charging current should be stable and be within the        to as the state of charge (SOC), can vary significantly from rated
      normal float current recommendations of the battery

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                         ANNEX A                                                                       72-225

capacity due to aging, charge and discharge cycles, tempera-                       (8) Calculate percent battery capacity as follows:
ture, and other factors. The unique failure modes of VRLA
batteries due to aging and internal degradation are attributed                     % Capacity = [Tactual/(180 × KT)] × 100

for a high failure rate where the actual battery capacity has                      where:
degraded to 80 percent of the manufacturer's rated capacity. As                    Tactual = the test duration in minutes
a result, battery manufacturers often recommend replacement
much sooner than the rated design life for critical systems.
   A test of battery capacity is designed to determine if the         KT = the temperature correction factor for the actual battery
                                                                   temperature at the start of the test from Table 14.4.3.2. Addi-
battery is capable of continuing to deliver the voltage level      tional temperature correction factors can be obtained from
specified by the manufacturer. The results of a capacity test can  IEEE 1188.

   also be used to estimate where the battery is in its service life. A               (9) Replace the battery if the battery capacity is less than or
   test of capacity is performed by applying a constant current                    equal to 80 percent. Replace the battery at the next scheduled
   load to the battery based on the manufacturer's published                       test interval if the battery capacity is less than 85 percent.
   discharge rates until voltage falls to specified levels. Although
   discharging the battery for capacity testing concerns some,                        As a good practice, a new battery should be fully charged
                                                                                   and then load tested following the battery manufacturer's
Y VRLA batteries are designed to handle numerous discharges                        recommendations prior to installation. A new fully charged
L within the limits established by the battery manufacturer.                       battery should have a capacity of at least 90 percent.

      The discharge rate selected for testing should be representa-                   Table 14.4.3.2, Item 17. Where the manufacturer publishes
                                                                                   limits of accuracy for the operation of an initiating device, the
N tive of the battery duty cycle. At shorter test times, the test dura-            test method should verify actuation is within the tolerances
                                                                                   provided.
   tion has a greater effect on the capacity calculation. For
                                                                                      Table 14.4.3.2 Item 22(1) and 22(2). If, during the course of
O example, a 1-minute difference in actual test time for a                         the periodic test of audible appliances, it is suspected that
                                                                                   alarm sound levels could be lower than the required minimum,
   5-minute discharge rate compared to a 3-hour discharge rate                     the system owner or the system owner's designated representa-
                                                                                   tive should be notified in writing. Such notification will allow
E will result in a greater deviation of the calculated capacity. The               the building owner or designated building representative to
                                                                                   determine whether sound pressure level readings should be
   battery is also operating less efficiently at shorter discharge                 taken for the area(s) in question.

S rates and the effects of aging and degradation might not be as                      Table 14.4.3.2, Item 24. The extent of testing of a fire alarm
                                                                                   or signaling system, including devices that were not tested,
   prevalent during shorter discharges.                                            should be documented in accordance with the test plan in
                                                                                   14.2.10. NFPA 72 does not require testing of an emergency
 U Fire alarm and signaling system loading is typically insuffi-                   control function, such as elevator recall, but does require test-
                                                                                   ing of the emergency control function interface device, such as
   cient for the practical application of a battery load test because              the relay powered by the fire alarm or signaling system. Where
                                                                                   the emergency control function is not being tested concurrent
L the system load cannot be varied to maintain a constant                          with the fire alarm or signaling system testing, measurement of
                                                                                   the emergency control function interface device output should
   current equal to the battery manufacturer's published                           be verified using the proper test devices. This might require
                                                                                   reading or observing the condition of a relay, a voltage meas-
A discharge rates. The fixed load applied by the system will result                urement, or the use of another type of test instrument. Once
                                                                                   testing is complete, verification that any disabled or disconnec-
   in final voltage levels that are deceptively high. Battery sizing is            ted interface devices have been restored to normal is essential,
                                                                                   and this verification should be documented in the testing
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U also a factor. The calculated system loads for the battery dutyresults.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} cycle (e.g., 24 hours standby followed by 5 minutes in an       Testing of the emergency control functions themselves is

ID alarm) will rarely align with published discharge rates necessary

   for load testing. In many applications where the battery size is

IV large in comparison to the required system current, the system

   loading could be too small to accurately determine battery
   capacity. In these cases, a battery near failure could conceivably

D satisfy the low discharge rate applied by the fire alarm or signal-

   ing system.

 IN In order to satisfy the load test requirements of Table

   14.4.3.2, battery capacity testing can be performed in the
   following manner or in accordance with other methods such as

R those identified in IEEE Std TM 1188, Recommended Practice for

   Maintenance, Testing, and Replacement of Valve-Regulated Lead-Acid

O(VRLA) Batteries for Stationary Applications:
F(1) Referring to the battery manufacturer's specifications,
determine the load current for the 3-hour battery rating                           outside of the scope of NFPA 72. A complete end-to-end test
to the selected end voltage, typically 1.67 volts per cell
(10.2 volts for a 12-volt system or 20.4 volts for a 24-volt                       that demonstrates the performance of emergency control func-
                                                                                   tions actuated by the fire alarm or signaling system might be
system).                                                                           required by some other governing laws, codes, or standards, or
(2) Record the battery temperature at the negative terminal.
(3) Disconnect the charger and connect a load bank to the                          the authority having jurisdiction. In that situation, other appli-
                                                                                   cable installation standards and design documents, not
battery terminals.                                                                 NFPA 72, would address testing and performance of the emer-
(4) Apply the constant current specified for the 3-hour rate
to the battery. Once the constant current is applied,                              gency control functions. NFPA 4 provides requirements for
                                                                                   integrated (end-to-end) system testing.
continue the test until the battery terminal voltage
decreases to the specified end voltage.                                            It is important to note that the appropriate NFPA standard
                                                                                   would provide the acceptance criteria for the overall emer-
(5) Stop the test when the selected end voltage is reached.                        gency control function operation requirements, including
(6) Record the actual test duration in minutes.
(7) Disconnect the load bank and reconnect the charger.                            performance and test methods, while NFPA 72 covers the

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-226                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

required performance and testing of the emergency function N Table A.14.4.3.2 Temperature Correction Factors
interface device.

For instance, if an end-to-end test for a building with an              Temperature

engineered smoke control system is required by some other          °F                (°C)                        KT
governing laws, codes, standards, or the authority having juris-
diction, the test protocol would have unique criteria for the      65                18.3                     0.92
                                                                   66                18.9                     0.927
smoke control system design, and a special inspector would be      67                19.4                     0.935
responsible for the overall operation and performance of the
smoke control system in accordance with the appropriate            68                20                       0.942
standard (NFPA 92 and NFPA 101) during the testing, includ-        69                20.6                     0.948
ing measuring pressure differentials and ensuring proper fan
and damper operation. Refer to the following extract from          70                21.1                     0.955
                                                                   71                21.7                     0.96
NFPA 101 on smoke control:                                         72                22.2                     0.97
   9.3.2 System Design. The engineer of record shall clearly       73                22.8                     0.975
                                                                   74                23.4                     0.98
Y identify the intent of the system, the design method used, the   75                23.9                     0.985
                                                                   76                24.5                     0.99
appropriateness of that method used, and the required means        77                25                       1
                                                                   78                25.6                     1.002
L of inspecting, testing, and maintaining the system. [101: 9.3.2] 79                26.1                     1.007
N 9.3.3 Acceptance Testing. Acceptance testing shall be            80                26.7                     1.011
                                                                   81                27.2                     1.017
performed by a special inspector in accordance with                82                27.8                     1.023
                                                                   83                28.3                     1.03
O Section 9.13. [101: 9.3.3]                                       84                28.9                     1.035
   Even though the fire alarm or signaling system initiating       85                29.4                     1.04
                                                                   86                30                       1.045
E device might actuate the smoke control system, the actual test-  87                30.6                     1.05
                                                                   88                31.1                     1.055
ing of the dampers and fan operation would be as required by       89                31.6                     1.06
                                                                   90                32.2                     1.065
S the smoke control design and not part of the fire alarm or       95                35                       1.09
                                                                   100               37.8                     1.112
signaling system.

U Other emergency control operation requirements might be

as follows: For fan shutdown and smoke damper operation, the

L fan and damper operations would be in accordance with

NFPA 90A and NFPA 105 respectively, and those equipment

A operations would be verified by those responsible for HVAC

systems in combination with the fire alarm system personnel.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Guidance for elevator inspection and testing can be found in

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ASME A.17.2, Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators and

ID Moving Walks. For elevator systems, the recall function, elevator

power shutdown, and hat illumination would be done with the

IV elevator mechanics present during the test. This operational

test is often accomplished during routine periodic fire alarm
testing. For fire door holder and fire shutter release, it would

D be expected that the emergency control function operation of

the doors/shutters would be verified in accordance with

IN NFPA 80 and NFPA 101 during the test. In some cases, the door

manufacturer representative might need to be present to reset
the equipment.

R A.14.4.4 It is suggested that the annual test be conducted in

segments so that all devices are tested annually.

O The intent of 14.4.4 is to prevent a test from being made at
Fintervals exceeding those allowed by Table 14.4.3.2. Annual

tests should be made every 12 months; monthly tests should be
                                                                      A.14.4.4.6 It is not intended to require testing the pathways at
                                                                      every device or circuit junctions.
                                                                      A.14.4.5.3 It is intended that smoke alarms and connected
                                                                      appliances be considered as a "fire protection system" for the
                                                                      purpose of applying the responsibility provisions in 14.2.3.
                                                                   N· A.14.4.5.4 Permanent occupants (whether renters or owners)
                                                                      of a dwelling unit should be provided with training and infor-
                                                                      mation sufficient to operate, inspect, test, and maintain their
                                                                      own alarms. The information should cover basic maintenance
                                                                      requirements, testing, and troubleshooting procedures, and
                                                                      contact information for further support. It is not intended that
                                                                      occupants be trained to a level similar to a factory technician or
                                                                      to qualify them to redesign, program, or extend their alarms
                                                                      without further training.

made every 30 days, and so forth. For example, it is not accept- N A.14.4.6.3 Permanent occupants (whether renters or owners)
able to conduct an annual test in January of year one, and         of a dwelling unit should be provided with training and infor-
December of year two (23-month frequency), just because
Table 14.4.3.2 requires a test once each year. See the definition  mation sufficient to operate, inspect, test, and maintain their
                                                                   own household alarm system. The information should cover
of frequency in 3.3.121 for minimum and maximum time               basic maintenance requirements, testing and troubleshooting
between testing events.
                                                                   procedures, and contact information for further support. It is
                                                                   not intended that occupants be trained to a level similar to a
A.14.4.4.3 Detectors that cause unwanted alarms should be          factory technician or to qualify them to redesign, program, or
tested at their lower listed range (or at 0.5 percent obscuration  extend their systems.
if unmarked or unknown). Detectors that actuate at less than
this level should be replaced.
                                                                   N A.14.4.8.1.3 Permanent occupants (whether renters or
                                                                   owners) of a dwelling unit should be provided with training
                                                                   and information sufficient to operate, inspect, test, and main-

2019 Edition                    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                            ANNEX A                                                                                      72-227

                           50

                                                                                                    Typical impedance/resistance trend

                           40

% Deviation from Baseline  30

                                                                                                                                Replace Units #1 and #2

                           20

                           10

                                                                                                                             Baseline

                            0

                           -10-20

                                          Y Replace Units #1 and #2
                           L -30
                           -40

                                      N Typical conductance trend
                                O Install 0.5
                           -50
E N FIGURE A.14.4.3.2 Example Ohmic Trend Analysis for a 24-Volt Battery Made Up of Two1.01.52.02.53.03.54.0                           4.5  5.0
S 12-Volt Units.
                                          Years in Service                                                                             Unit #1 Unit #2

U tain their own alarm systems. The training should cover basic         gas detection devices, devices that detect the operation of fire
                                                                        suppression and extinguishing systems, waterflow detectors,
   maintenance requirements, testing and troubleshooting proce-         pressure switches, manual fire alarm boxes, and other supervi-
                                                                        sory signal­initiating devices (including guard tour reporting)
L dures, and contact information for further support. It is not         used to ensure timely warning for the purposes of life safety
                                                                        and the protection of a building, a space, a structure, an area,
   intended that occupants be trained to a level similar to a           or an object.
                                                                        A.17.1.2 The initiating devices chapter does not specify
A factory technician or to qualify them to redesign, program, or        requirements for having or using any particular type of initiat-
                                                                        ing device for a particular application. The requirements to
   extend their systems.                                                have certain initiating devices are found in other NFPA codes
                                                                        and standards, or in other governing laws, codes, or standards.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.14.4.11 See Annex D, Speech Intelligibility.In a few instances other parts of this Code might require some
ID A.14.6.1 For final determination of record retention, see            minimal complement of initiating devices. For example, 10.4.5
                                                                        requires a smoke detector at control unit locations but does
   14.4.4.3 for sensitivity options.                                    not require complete smoke detection of any particular area.
                                                                        Similarly, 23.8.5.1.2 requires at least one manual fire alarm box
IV A.14.6.1.2 With many software-based fire systems, a copy of          on any fire alarm system that is connected to a supervising
                                                                        station and that also employs automatic fire detectors or water-
   the site-specific software is required to restore system operation   flow detection devices. Thus, a system that might be required
                                                                        solely for the purpose of monitoring a sprinkler system and
D if a catastrophic system failure should occur. Without a back-up      sending a signal off premises would still require a smoke detec-
                                                                        tor at any control unit locations as well as a single manual pull
   copy readily available on site, recovery of system operation by

IN authorized service personnel can be substantially delayed.
      The intent of this requirement is to provide authorized serv-
   ice personnel with an on-site copy of the site-specific software.

R The on-site copy should provide a means to recover the last

   installed and tested version of the site-specific operation of the

Osystem. This typically would be an electronic copy of the source

   files required to load an external programming device with the

Fsite-specific data. This requirement does not extend to the
system executive software, nor does it require that the external        station.
programmer software if required be stored on site.
                                                                        A.17.3 Annex B, Engineering Guide for Automatic Fire Detec-
   It is intended that this copy of the software be an electronic       tor Spacing, provides a detailed design guide for the imple-
version stored on a nonrewritable media containing all of the           mentation of the performance-based design of fire alarm
file(s) or data necessary to restore the system and not just a
printed version of the operation stored on electronic media.            systems.

One example of a nonrewritable medium is a CD-R.                        N A.17.4.2.3 Situations exist where supplemental enclosures are
                                                                        necessary to protect the physical integrity of an initiating
A.14.6.2.4 One method used to define the required sequence              device. Protective enclosures should not interfere with the
of operations and to document the actual sequence of opera-
tions is an input/output matrix (see Figure A.14.6.2.4).                performance characteristics of the device. If the enclosure
                                                                        degrades the performance, methods should be detailed in the
                                                                        manufacturer's published instructions of the protection device
N A.17.1.1 Examples of initiating devices include, but are not          that clearly identify the degradation. In some cases, adjust-
   limited to, fire detection devices, carbon monoxide or other

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-228                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                                     System Outputs

                       Control Unit Annunciation                     Notification  Required Fire Safety Control                                                                            Supplementary

        System Inputs  IrAATTTAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEAPSSSDCRRURnccrreilrrittcccccccccccccccnhhheenetsstttttttttttttttaaoallieAuucceuuuppuuuuuuuuuusuuuuunncnostttearlaataatottaaaaaaaaassaesllcsaaaaadddagalltttttttttttttttuienkeeusoooyseeeeeeeeeemmmzeeeeears/iiieetieslltt11tewwweepccc23aa1a1mzse123gursseextfnnnrrrriisttoossoinuuuoesurnmppvvtttrtededanuffkddddppppoldaosptllaaxmmiififmseffirrrfpllttrptetllfpuelfgoolbbb/lnrooochlloloooeemmmefaooabtaoinooiiorlrrrlcccoehseeoeoirrooorrooscoessrrovaierseeeroastrionnn((resriiscrawttr(nssssnlszzteissceouosseizaoossssredgmsgalovlvooovalnpiuryrgovloamemmaalnnapsn###asssmesyplnnraiursocotmryteecio123muoomeclseagykbkfvuselelrmupkaiisoyuhse32nmrelieavttea1))seesgisntmsaentaa)ntgiirtlitolenoesrntiesoaaaarnoseigedro­illtxoaytotxaoslmtyixlanrgnondiaaohleurhsnmufdarrnrhtynaiisusasrsleraspisieaoiscrsampblummsiicleulgeurigmugaaposiireingsalcsttenpetginlistnkvlnnandtnuaaeianniaedolsaelliddfsldilarypsdiicliaidlnisslisvfgfedcccasionllncrictanwoaasaogoovgihttnatopriaatoorllonaoodsorlsprsriorrrlirtgissercgnaaqatsmegittnuaoocaseartpltnienaaoctraitneomf.nsd.

                       A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z AA BB CC DD EE FF GG

                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                        8
                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                                       11
                                                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                                                                                       14
                                                                                                                                                                                       15
                                                                                                                                                                                       16
                                                                                                                                                                                       17
                                                                                                                                                                                       18
                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                                                                                                       21
                                                                                                                                                                                       22
                                                                                                                                                                                       23
                                                                                                                                                                                       24
                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                       26
                                                                                                                                                                                       27
                                                                                                                                                                                       28
                                                                                                                                                                                       29
                                                                                                                                                                                       30

                       A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z AA BB CC DD EE FF GG
1 Manual fire alarm boxes ­ 1st floor

2 Manual fire alarm boxes ­ 2nd floor

3 Manual fire alarm boxes ­ 3rd floor
4 Smoke detectors ­ 1st floor

Y 5 Smoke detectors ­ 3rd floor

6 Smoke detectors ­ 1st floor
7 Smoke detectors ­ 1st floor elev. lobby

L 8 2nd floor computer rm. smoke det.-zone 1

9 2nd floor computer rm. smoke det.-zone 2
10 In-duct smoke detector ­ supply fan 1

N 11 In-duct smoke detector ­ supply fan 2

12 In-duct smoke detector ­ 1st floor return
13 In-duct smoke detector ­ 2nd floor return

O 14 In-duct smoke detector ­ 3rd floor return

15 Heat detectors ­ 1st floor mech. rm.
16 Heat detectors ­ 2nd floor storage room
17 Heat detectors ­ 3rd floor janitor's closet

E 18 Waterflow ­ 1st floor

19 Waterflow ­ 2nd floor
20 Waterflow ­ 3rd floor

S 21 Sprinkler control valve ­ 1st floor

22 Sprinkler control valve ­ 2nd floor
23 Sprinkler control valve ­ 3rd floor

U 24 Fire pump running

25 Fire pump power failure/phase reversal

26 Fire alarm ac power failure

L 27 Fire alarm system low battery

28 Open circuit

29 Ground fault

A 30 Notification appliance circuit short
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  FIGURE A.14.6.2.4 Typical Input/Output Matrix.
ID ments to initiating device sensitivity or range of operation are
IV necessary to ensure the objective and performance of the          of partitions on the flow of smoke to detectors and can be used
                                                                     to substantiate a less restrictive design criterion.
system.                                                              A.17.5.3 The requirement of 17.5.3 recognizes that there are
A.17.4.5 The monitoring of circuit integrity relies on the           several different types of detector coverage.
                                                                     A.17.5.3.1 The degree of detection coverage is generally a
D interruption of the wiring continuity when the connection to       design issue. Usually the design of detection correlates with the
                                                                     smoke compartmentation of the building.
the initiating device is lost. Terminals and leads, as illustrated
                                                                        Vertical spaces such as stairways and elevator shafts are often
IN in Figure A.17.4.5(a) and Figure A.17.4.5(b), monitor the pres-   difficult design challenges. For elevator shafts, Section 21.4
                                                                     provides design criteria to achieve correlation with ASME
ence of the device on the initiating device circuit.                 A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.

R A.17.4.6.1 Embossed plastic tape, pencil, ink, or crayon              Stairways can be equipped with smoke detection but the
                                                                     number and location are determined by the design of the stair-
should not be considered to be a permanently attached plac-          way.
ard.

O A.17.4.7 Some applications that do not require full area
Fprotection do require detection to initiate action when specific

objects or spaces are threatened by smoke or fire, such as at
elevator landings that have ceilings in excess of 15 ft (4.6 m)
and for protection of fire alarm control units. In high-ceiling
areas, to achieve the desired initiation, such as for elevator          Generally at least one smoke detector should be located at
recall and protection of fire alarm control units (FACUs),           the top of the stairway. Additional detectors should be located
detection should be placed on the wall above and within 60 in.       on additional floors to achieve design objectives.
(1.52 m) from the top of the elevator door(s) or FACU.               A.17.5.3.1.4 Total coverage requires that a fire above the
A.17.5.2 This requirement is based on the generally accepted         suspended ceiling be detected. Detector spacing and location
principle that the ceiling jet is approximately 10 percent of the    for above ceiling spaces are addressed in 17.7.3.5.2. If that
distance from the base of the fire to the ceiling. To this figure,   above-ceiling space is used as an air return plenum, this detec-
an additional safety factor of 50 percent has been added.            tion can be provided either by smoke detectors placed in
Performance-based methods are available to predict the impact        accordance with 17.7.4.2 or where the air leaves the smoke
                                                                     compartment in accordance with 17.7.5.4.2.2.

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                ANNEX A                                                                          72-229

                        Duplicate               Duplicate       Single terminal         Duplicate
                        terminals               leads           notched clamping plate  terminals

Control                     D                      D                                                         End-of-line
unit                                                                                                         resistor
initiating
device                                                              D                       D
circuit

                                             Splices
                           Correct wiring method -- two-wire detectors

                                                                                                             End-of-line
                                                                                                             resistor
Control
unit                    D                       D                   D                       D

initiating

device

NLY circuit
                        Circuit wiring     One splice lead      Circuit wire bent       Circuit wire looped
                        looped under       connected, other
                        one terminal       taped and not used   back on itself and      under terminal;

                                                                secured in one notch wire run not broken
USE O Incorrect
                           Incorrect wiring method -- two-wire detectors

                                   In              Out          In       Out

L FIGURE A.17.4.5(a) Correct (and Incorrect) Wiring Methods.                            In                   Out

                                                Correct -- separate incoming and outgoing conductors

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UA Control
              ID initiating                                                                                          End-of-line
                                                                                                                     device
                                                                                               D

                                                                                                       Power supervisory
                                                                                                       relay
              8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} unit
              IV Detector               D          D                     D

              powerdevice

              circuitD supply

                                                Outgoing power
                                                supply leads

ORControl                       Incoming power

                        INsupply leads
Illustrates four-wire smoke detector employing a three-wire connecting arrangement. One side of power supply is connected to one side of
initiating device circuit. Wire run broken at each connection to smoke detector to provide supervision.

F initiating  unit                      D          D                     D                                           End-of-line
                                                                                                                     device

                                                                                               D

              device

              circuit

                                                Outgoing power                                           Power supervisory
                                                supply leads                                             relay

              Detector
              power

              supply

                        Incoming power

                        supply leads

Illustrates four-wire smoke detector employing a four-wire connecting arrangement. Incoming and outgoing leads or terminals for both initiating
device and power supply connections. Wire run broken at each connection to provide supervision.

D = Detector

FIGURE A.17.4.5(b) Wiring Arrangements for Four-Wire Detectors.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-230                                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.17.5.3.2 If there are no detectors in the room or area of fire                      objectives for each fire protection system being employed in
origin, the fire could exceed the design objectives before being                      the facility. Consequently, the performance objectives and crite-
detected by remotely located detectors. When coverage other                           ria for the fire alarm system are part of a much larger strategy
than total coverage is required, partial coverage can be provi-                       that often relies on other fire protection features, working in
ded in common areas and work spaces such as corridors,                                concert with the fire alarm system to attain the overall fire
lobbies, storage rooms, equipment rooms, and other tenantless                         protection goals for the facility.
spaces. The intent of selective coverage is to address a specific
hazard only.                                                                             In the performance-based design environment, the designer
                                                                                      uses computational models to demonstrate that the spacing
Where a specific area is to be protected, all points within                           used for automatic fire detectors connected to the fire alarm
that area should be within 0.7 × the adjusted detector spacing                        system will achieve the objectives established by the system, by
for spot-type detectors as required by 17.6.3 and 17.7.3.2. Note                      showing that the system meets the performance criteria estab-
that an area does not necessarily mean an entire room. It is                          lished for the system in the design documentation. Conse-
possible to provide properly spaced detectors to provide detec-                       quently, it is imperative that the design objectives and
tion for only part of a room. Similarly, the Code permits protec-                     performance criteria to which the system has been designed
tion of a specific hazard. In that case, detectors within a radius                    are clearly stated in the system documentation.
                                                                                      A.17.6.1.5 In order to predict the response of a heat detector
Y of 0.7 × the adjusted detector spacing from the hazard provide                      using current fire modeling programs and currently published
L the required detection. An example of protection of specific                        equations describing plume dynamics, two parameters must be
                                                                                      known: operating temperature and response time index (RTI).
risk is the smoke detector required by Section 21.3 to be within                      The RTI is the quantification of the rate of heat transfer from
                                                                                      the ceiling jet to the detector sensing element per unit of time,
N 21 ft (6.4 m) of an elevator, where elevator recall is required.                    expressed as a function of ceiling jet temperature, ceiling jet
   It should also be noted that fire detection by itself is not fire                  velocity, and time. Spot-type heat detectors manufactured prior
                                                                                      to July 1, 2008, were not required to be marked with an RTI.
O protection. Also, protection goals could be such that detection                     A.17.6.2.3 Detectors should be selected to minimize this
                                                                                      temperature difference in order to minimize response time.
being provided for a specific area or hazard might require a                          However, a heat detector with a temperature rating that is
                                                                                      somewhat in excess of the highest normally expected ambient
E form of total coverage for that particular area or hazard. That                     temperature is specified in order to avoid the possibility of
                                                                                      premature operation of the heat detector to non-fire condi-
is, it might be necessary to provide detectors above suspended                        tions. Heat-sensing fire detectors of a low temperature classifi-
                                                                                      cation per Table 17.6.2.1 are intended only for installation in
S ceilings or in small closets and other ancillary spaces that are a                  areas where the ambient temperature is controlled.
                                                                                      A.17.6.3.1.1 Maximum linear spacings on smooth ceilings for
part of, or an exposure to, the area or hazard being protected.                       spot-type heat detectors are determined by full-scale fire tests.
                                                                                      [See Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(c).] These tests assume that the detectors
U A.17.5.3.3 The requirement of 17.5.3.3 recognizes there will                        are to be installed in a pattern of one or more squares, each
                                                                                      side of which equals the maximum spacing as determined in
be instances where, for example, a facility owner would want to                       the test, as illustrated in Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(a). The detector to
                                                                                      be tested is placed at a corner of the square so that it is posi-
L apply detection to meet certain performance goals and to                            tioned at the farthest possible distance from the fire while
                                                                                      remaining within the square. Thus, the distance from the
address a particular hazard or need, but that detection is not                        detector to the fire is always the test spacing multiplied by 0.7
                                                                                      and can be calculated as shown in Table A.17.6.3.1.1.
A required. Once installed, of course, acceptance testing, annual                     Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(b) illustrates the smooth ceiling spacing
                                                                                      layout for line-type heat detectors.
testing, and ongoing maintenance in accordance with this
                                                                                         Once the correct maximum test distance has been deter-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Code is expected. The intent of this section is to allow the use  mined, it is valid to interchange the positions of the fire and

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} of a single detector, or multiple detectors provided for specific

ID protection, with spacing to meet specific fire safety objectives as

determined in accordance with 17.6.1.1 and 17.7.1.1.

IV A.17.6.1.1 The performance objective statement should

describe the purpose of the detector placement and the inten-

D ded response of the fire alarm control unit to the detector acti-

vation. This statement can include a narrative description of

IN the required response time of the detectors, a narrative of the

sequence of operations, a tabular list of programming require-
ments or some other method.

R The performance objective of a fire detection system is

usually expressed in terms of time and the size fire the system is
intended to detect, measured in British thermal units per

O second (Btu/sec) or kilowatts (kW). Typically, the fire alarm
Fsystem designer does not establish this criterion. It is usually
obtained from the design documentation prepared by the                                the detector. The detector is now in the middle of the square,
designer responsible for the strategy of the structure as a         and the listing specifies that the detector is adequate to detect
whole. Where a prescriptive design is being provided, this                            a fire that occurs anywhere within that square -- even out to
requirement is fulfilled by stating in the design documentation                       the farthest corner.
that the design conforms to the prescriptive provisions of this
Code.                                                                  In laying out detector installations, designers work in terms
                                                                    of rectangles, as building areas are generally rectangular in
A.17.6.1.3 In a performance-based design environment, the                             shape. The pattern of heat spread from a fire source, however,
performance objectives for the fire alarm system are not estab-                       is not rectangular in shape. On a smooth ceiling, heat spreads
lished by the fire alarm system designer.                           out in all directions in an ever-expanding circle. Thus, the
                                                                                      coverage of a detector is not, in fact, a square, but rather a
   A fire protection strategy is developed to achieve those goals.                    circle whose radius is the linear spacing multiplied by 0.7.
General performance objectives are developed for the facility.
These general objectives give rise to specific performance

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                     ANNEX A                                                                                 72-231

This is graphically illustrated in Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(d). With      Table A.17.6.3.1.1 Test Spacing for Spot-Type Heat Detectors
the detector at the center, by rotating the square, an infinite
number of squares can be laid out, the corners of which create
the plot of a circle whose radius is 0.7 times the listed spacing.                Test Spacing                         Maximum Test Distance
The detector will cover any of these squares and, consequently,                                                         from Fire to Detector
any point within the confines of the circle.                                                                                      (0.7D)

So far this explanation has considered squares and circles. In                ft                m                      ft    m

practical applications, very few areas turn out to be exactly        50 × 50             15.2 × 15.2                   35.0  10.7
                                                                     40 × 40             12.2 × 12.2                   28.0  8.5
square, and circular areas are extremely rare. Designers deal        30 × 30             9.1 × 9.1                     21.0  6.4
generally with rectangles of odd dimensions and corners of
rooms or areas formed by wall intercepts, where spacing to one       25 × 25             7.6 × 7.6                     17.5  5.3
wall is less than one-half the listed spacing. To simplify the rest  20 × 20             6.1 × 6.1                     14.0  4.3
   of this explanation, the use of a detector with a listed spacing
   of 30 ft × 30 ft (9.1 m × 9.1 m) should be considered. The prin-       15 × 15        4.6 × 4.6                     10.5  3.2
   ciples derived are equally applicable to other types.
                                                                     0.7S ¹/ S                                         0.7S
 Y Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(g) illustrates the derivation of this                         S
L concept. In Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(g), a detector is placed in the                        S                       S
                                                                     ¹/ S
   center of a circle with a radius of 21 ft (0.7 × 30 ft) [6.4 m           S                                          ¹/ S

N (0.7 × 9.1 m)]. A series of rectangles with one dimension less           S

   than the permitted maximum of 30 ft (9.1 m) is constructed              S

O within the circle. The following conclusions can be drawn:

   (1) As the smaller dimension decreases, the longer dimen-

  E sion can be increased beyond the linear maximum spac-

          ing of the detector with no loss in detection efficiency.

S (2) A single detector covers any area that fits within the
          circle. For a rectangle, a single, properly located detector
  U may be permitted, provided the diagonal of the rectangle
          does not exceed the diameter of the circle.

L (3) Relative detector efficiency actually is increased, because
          the area coverage in square meters is always less than the
  A 900 ft2 (84 m2) permitted if the full 30 ft × 30 ft (9.1 m ×
          9.1 m) square were to be utilized. The principle illustra-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ted here allows equal linear spacing between the detector
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} and the fire, with no recognition for the effect of reflec-
  ID tion from walls or partitions, which in narrow rooms or
          corridors is of additional benefit. For detectors that are
          not centered, the longer dimension should always be
  IV used in laying out the radius of coverage.
      Areas so large that they exceed the rectangular dimensions

D given in Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(g) require additional detectors.

   Often proper placement of detectors can be facilitated by

IN breaking down the area into multiple rectangles of the dimen-

   sions that fit most appropriately [see Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(e) and
   Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(f)]. For example, refer to Figure

R A.17.6.3.1.1(h). A corridor 10 ft (3.0 m) wide and up to 82 ft

   (25.0 m) long can be covered with two 30 ft (9.1 m) spot-type

Odetectors. An area 40 ft (12.2 m) wide and up to 74 ft (22.6 m)

   long can be covered with four spot-type detectors. Irregular

Fareas need more careful planning to make certain that no spot
                                                                                ¹/ S

                                                                            = Heat detector
                                                                       S = Space between detectors

                                                                     FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(a) Spot-Type Heat Detectors.

                                                                     0.7S         ¹/ S   0.7S 0.7S               ¹/ S  0.7S

                                                                     ¹/ S         S      S                       S     ¹/ S

on the ceiling is more than 21 ft (6.4 m) away from a detector.               Line-type
These points can be determined by striking arcs from the
remote corner. Where any part of the area lies beyond the                     detector

circle with a radius of 0.7 times the listed spacings, additional
detectors are required.

Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(h) illustrates smoke or heat detector                                ¹/ S
spacing layouts in irregular areas.

A.17.6.3.1.3.1 Figure A.17.6.3.1.3.1 illustrates the proper          S = Space between detectors
mounting placement for detectors.
                                                                     FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(b) Line-Type Detectors -- Spacing
                                                                     Layouts, Smooth Ceiling.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-232                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              50 ft (15.2 m)                                                                                           30
              40 ft (12.2 m)                                                                                                 25 × 25

              30 ft (9.1 m)                                      20                        20 20 × 20                  20     20 × 29.1

              20 ft (6.1 m)                                          15 × 15                       15 × 23.9                          15 × 32
                                                                                                                                         10 × 33.9
              S   10 ft   S                                      10  10 × 18.7             10          10 × 26.4 10
                 (3.1 m)

                 F                                                   5 × 20.6                                5 × 27.8                     5 × 35

              S           S                                      0   21.2                  0                 28.3      0                  35.4

                                                                 15  25                    20                30        25                 35
NLY F = Test fire, denatured alcohol, 190 proof. Pan located
 O approximately 36 in. (0.9 m) above floor.

S = Indicates normal sprinkler spacings on 10 ft (3.1 m)
          schedules.
 E = Indicates normal heat detector spacing on various
          spacing schedules.

S FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(c) Fire Test Layout.
   U A B C
                                                                     15 ft Detector curve 20 ft Detector curve 25 ft Detector curve

                                                                                                                       50 50 × 50

                                                                                                                              45 × 54.5

                                                                                           40 40 × 40                  40             40 × 58.3
                                                                                                                                          35 × 61.4
                                                                                                   35 × 44.4

                                                                 30 30 × 30                30                30 × 47.9 30                   30 × 64
                                                                             25 × 34.2                                        25 × 66.1
                                                                                                  25 × 50.7

                                                                 20  20 × 37.9 20 20 × 52.9                            20     20 × 67.8

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UAL C                                                       15 × 40.9            15 × 54.5                          15 × 69.1

                                                                 10           10 × 41.2 10         10 × 55.6           10             10 × 70

                                                                              5 × 42.1             5 × 56.2                           5 × 70.5

                                                                 0            42.4             0             56.6      0                      70.7

                                                                 30  40                        40            50           50          60            70
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B
                                                                     30 ft Detector curve         40 ft Detector curve 50 ft Detector curve

                              A                                  Note: All measures are in feet.

   INDIV C B A                B                                  FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(e) Typical Rectangles for Detector
                                                                 Curves of 15 ft to 50 ft.
AFIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(d) Detector Covering any Square LaidC
Out in Confines of Circle in Which Radius Is 0.7 Times Listed
                                                                 ing height (H), (W/H), is greater than 0.40, heat detectors
R Spacing.                                                       should be located in each beam pocket.
O A.17.6.3.2 In addition to the special requirements for heat
Fdetectors that are installed on ceilings with exposed joists,      If either the ratio of beam depth to ceiling height (D/H) is
                                                                 less than 0.10 or the ratio of beam spacing to ceiling height
reduced spacing also could be required due to other structural   (W/H) is less than 0.40, heat detectors should be installed on
                                                                 the bottom of the beams.
                                                                 A.17.6.3.4 Figure A.17.6.3.4(a) illustrates smoke or heat detec-
                                                                 tor spacing for peaked-type sloped ceilings.

                                                                    Figure A.17.6.3.4(b) illustrates smoke or heat detector spac-
                                                                 ing for shed-type sloped ceilings.

characteristics of the protected area, such as possible drafts or  A.17.6.3.5.1 Both 17.6.3.5.1 and Table 17.6.3.5.1 are construc-
other conditions that could affect detector operation.           ted to provide detector performance on higher ceilings [to
                                                                 30 ft (9.1 m) high] that is essentially equivalent to that which
   See Figure A.17.6.3.2 for an example of reduced spacing for   would exist with detectors on a 10 ft (3.0 m) ceiling. Table
solid joist construction.                                        17.6.3.5.1 is only applicable to spot-type heat detectors.

A.17.6.3.3 The location and spacing of heat detectors should        The Fire Detection Institute Fire Test Report [see
consider beam depth, ceiling height, beam spacing, and fire       I.1.2.18(10)] is used as a basis for Table 17.6.3.5.1. The report
size.                                                            does not include data on integration-type detectors. Pending
                                                                 development of such data, the manufacturer's published
   If the ratio of beam depth (D) to ceiling height (H), (D/H),  instructions will provide guidance.
is greater than 0.10 and the ratio of beam spacing (W) to ceil-

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                                   ANNEX A                                                                                   72-233

                                                     9.1                                                                         BA     A BC           Listed
                                                            7.6 × 7.6                                                       C                     D    spacing
                                                                                                                         D

6.1                   6.1 6.1 × 6.1                  6.1   6.1 × 8.9

     4.6 × 4.6                    4.6 × 7.3                4.6 × 9.8

3.0  3.0 × 5.7        3.0         3.0 × 8.0 3.0                        3.0 × 10.3

     1.5 × 6.3                           1.5 × 8.5                     1.5 × 10.7

0    6.5              0                  8.6         0                 10.8

4.6  7.6                   6.1           9.1         7.6               10.7
                                                           Y 13.7 × 16.6
4.6 m Detector curve 6.1 m Detector curve 7.6 m Detector curve                                                       D¢ C¢ B¢ A¢                   D¢
                                                                                                                                        A¢ B¢ C¢
                      L 12.2 12.2 × 12.2
                                                     15.2 15.2 × 15.2                                       Rectangles

ON 9.1 9.1 × 9.1
                                                                                                                     A = 10 ft ¥ 41 ft = 410 ft2 (3.1 m ¥ 12.5 m = 38 m2)

                                                                                                                     B = 15 ft ¥ 39 ft = 585 ft2 (4.6 m ¥ 11.9 m = 54 m2)

                                                     12.2         12.2 × 17.8                                        C = 20 ft ¥ 37 ft = 740 ft2 (6.1 m ¥ 11.3 m = 69 m2)

                                                                        10.7 ×                                       D = 25 ft ¥ 34 ft = 850 ft2 (7.6 m ¥ 10.4 m = 79 m2 )
                                                                        18.7
                                  10.7 × 13.5                                               Listed spacing for = 30 ft ¥ 30 ft = 900 ft2 (9.1 m ¥ 9.1 m = 84 m2)
                                                                           9.1 ×
                                                                           19.5

                                                           7.6 × 20.1

                                                             6.1 × 20.7
     E 7.6 × 10.4
                                         9.1 × 14.6  9.1                                    heat detectors only

                      9.1

                S 4.6 × 12.5
                                  7.6 ×                                                     Note: Smoke detectors are not listed for spacing. Use manufacturer's
                                  15.5                                                               coverage recommendations and this figure.

                                                                                            FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(g) Detector Spacing, Rectangular
                                                                                            Areas.
U 3.0
6.1  6.1 × 11.6 6.1 6.1 × 16.1                       6.1

                                  4.6 × 16.6               4.6 × 21.1
                L 1.5 × 12.8
                3.0 × 12.6        3.0 × 16.9         3.0   3.0 × 21.3
                             3.0
A 0
                                  1.5 × 17.1               1.5 × 21.5
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Note: All measures are in meters.
                12.9       0               17.3      0                       21.6                                                           21 ft
                            12.2         15.2        15.2                                                                                 (6.4 m)
9.1  12.2                                                  18.3              21.3
ID FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(f) Typical Rectangles for Detector                                                                              21 ft
                                                                                                                                     (6.4 m)
Curves of 4.6 m to 15.2 m.
9.1 m Detector curve       12.2 m Detector curve 15.2 m Detector curve

 IV Table 17.6.3.5.1 provides for spacing modification to take                                                    21 ft          21 ft            21 ft    21 ft
D into account different ceiling heights for generalized fire                                                  (6.4 m)         (6.4 m)          (6.4 m)  (6.4 m)
                                                                                                                                          21 ft
   conditions. Information regarding a design method that allows                                              21 ft        21 ft        (6.4 m)
                                                                                                            (6.4 m)      (6.4 m)
IN the designer to take into account ceiling height, fire size, and
                                                                                                                                                       10 ft (3.1 m)
   ambient temperatures is provided in Annex B.
   A.17.6.3.5.3 The width of uniform temperature of the plume                               40 ft (12.2 m)                                             20 ft (6.1 m)

R when it impinges on the ceiling is approximately 0.4 times the

   height above the fire, so reducing spacing below this level will

Onot increase response time. For example, a detector with a
Flisted spacing of 15 ft (4.6 m) or 225 ft2 (21 m2) need not be
spaced closer than 12 ft (3.7 m) on a 30 ft (9.1 m) ceiling, even                                           18¹/ ft                  37 ft (11.3 m)      18¹/ ft
though Table 17.6.3.5.1 states that the spacing should be 0.34 ×                                            (5.6 m)                                      (5.6 m)

15 ft (0.34 × 4.6 m), which equals 5.1 ft (1.6 m).

A.17.6.3.6 The linear space rating is the maximum allowable                                 10 ft (3.1 m)                            74 ft (22.6 m)    10 ft (3.1 m)
distance between heat detectors. The linear space rating is also                                  20¹/ ft
a measure of the heat detector response time to a standard test                                   (6.3 m)                            41 ft (12.5 m)                 20¹/ ft
fire where tested at the same distance. The higher the rating,                                                                        82 ft (25 m)                 ( 6.3 m)
the faster the response time. This Code recognizes only those
heat detectors with ratings of 50 ft (15.2 m) or more.

                                                                                            = Smoke detector or heat detector

                                                                                            FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.1(h) Smoke or Heat Detector Spacing
                                                                                            Layout in Irregular Areas.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-234                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                       4 in. (100 mm)                                         4 in.       Not in this area
                                                                          (100 mm)
              Ceiling                                                                           Anywhere in
                                                                                                this area

                       Acceptable here            4 in.                         36 in. 36 in.
                                               (100 mm)                      (910 mm) (910 mm)
                                   Never here  minimum

                             Top of detector             12 in.
                             acceptable here           (300 mm)
                                                       maximum

Note: Measurements shown are to                                     ¹/ S     S                               S  ¹/ S

NLY the closest edge of the detector.
                                                                    S = Space between detectors
                                                                       = Smoke detector or heat detector
O FIGURE A.17.6.3.1.3.1 Example of Proper Mounting for
E Heat Detectors.                              Sidewall

       S ¹/ S ¹/ S ¹/ S
                                                                    FIGURE A.17.6.3.4(a) Smoke or Heat Detector Spacing
                                                                    Layout, Sloped Ceilings (Peaked Type).

                       U Solid joists
                       AL Detectors on         ¹/ S

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U bottom of
          IVID ¹/ S    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} joistsS

S = Space between detectors                                         ¹/ S

D FIGURE A.17.6.3.2 Detector Spacing Layout, Solid Joist                  S  S         S                  S        S
IN Construction.
                                                                    S = Space between detectors                 36 in. (910 mm)
A.17.7.1.1 The performance objective statement should                  = Smoke detector or heat detector           maximum

R describe the purpose of the detector placement and the inten-     FIGURE A.17.6.3.4(b) Smoke or Heat Detector Spacing
                                                                    Layout, Sloped Ceilings (Shed Type).
ded response of the fire alarm control unit to the detector acti-
                                                                    A.17.7.1.2 The person designing an installation should keep
O vation. This statement can include a narrative description of     in mind that, in order for a smoke detector to respond, the
Fthe required response time of the detectors, a narrative of the    smoke has to travel from the point of origin to the detector. In
                                                                    evaluating any particular building or location, likely fire loca-
sequence of operations, a tabular list of programming require-      tions should be determined first. From each of these points of
ments, or some other method.                                        origin, paths of smoke travel should be determined. Wherever
                                                                    practicable, actual field tests should be conducted. The most
                                                                    desired locations for smoke detectors are the common points
                                                                    of intersection of smoke travel from fire locations throughout
   The performance objective of a fire detection system is          the building.
usually expressed in terms of time and the size fire the system is
intended to detect, measured in British thermal units per
second (Btu/sec) or kilowatts (kW). Typically, the fire alarm          NOTE: This is one of the reasons that specific spacing is not
system designer does not establish this criterion. It is usually    assigned to smoke detectors by the testing laboratories.

obtained from the design documentation prepared by the              A.17.7.1.3 In a performance-based design environment, the
designer responsible for the strategy of the structure as a         performance objectives for the fire alarm system are not estab-
whole. Where a prescriptive design is being provided, this          lished by the fire alarm system designer.
requirement is fulfilled by stating in the design documentation
that the design conforms to the prescriptive provisions of this        A fire protection strategy is developed to achieve those goals.
Code.                                                               General performance objectives are developed for the facility.
                                                                    These general objectives give rise to specific performance

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                               ANNEX A                                                                                  72-235

objectives for each fire protection system being employed in       Table A.17.7.1.10(a) Common Sources of Aerosols and
the facility. Consequently, the performance objectives and crite-
ria for the fire alarm system are part of a much larger strategy   Particulate Matter Moisture

that often relies on other fire protection features, working in    Moisture                               Humid outside air
concert with the fire alarm system to attain the overall fire                                             Humidifiers
protection goals for the facility.                                                                        Live steam

In the performance-based design environment, the designer                                                 Showers
uses computational models to demonstrate that the spacing                                                 Slop sink
used for automatic fire detectors connected to the fire alarm
system will achieve the objectives established by the system, by                                          Steam tables
                                                                                                          Water spray
showing that the system meets the performance criteria estab-
lished for the system in the design documentation. Conse-          Combustion products                    Chemical fumes
                                                                                     and fumes            Cleaning fluids
   quently, it is imperative that the design objectives and                                               Cooking equipment
   performance criteria to which the system has been designed                     Atmospheric             Curing
   are clearly stated in the system documentation.                                   contaminants         Cutting, welding, and brazing
                                                                                                          Dryers
Y  A.17.7.1.8 Product-listing standards include tests for tempo-                  Engine exhaust          Exhaust hoods
L rary excursions beyond normal limits. In addition to tempera-                   Heating element with    Fireplaces
                                                                                                          Machining
   ture, humidity, and velocity variations, smoke detectors should                   abnormal conditions  Ovens
                                                                                                          Paint spray
N operate reliably under such common environmental conditions                                             Corrosive atmospheres
                                                                                                          Dust or lint
   as mechanical vibration, electrical interference, and other envi-                                      Excessive tobacco smoke
                                                                                                          Heat treating
O ronmental influences. Tests for these conditions are also                                               Linen and bedding handling
                                                                                                          Pneumatic transport
   conducted by the testing laboratories in their listing program.                                        Sawing, drilling, and grinding
                                                                                                          Textile and agricultural processing
E In those cases in which environmental conditions approach the                                           Diesel trucks and locomotives
                                                                                                          Engines not vented to the outside
   limits shown in Table A.17.7.1.8, the detector manufacturer's                                          Gasoline forklift trucks
                                                                                                          Dust accumulations
S published instructions should be consulted for additional infor-                                        Improper exhaust
                                                                                                          Incomplete combustion
   mation and recommendations.

U N A.17.7.1.9 The velocities indicated in individual duct detector
   listings are based on applicable standards such as ANSI/
L UL 268A, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Duct Application.
A A.17.7.1.10 Smoke detectors can be affected by electrical and
   mechanical influences and by aerosols and particulate matter

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U found in protected spaces. The location of detectors should be

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} such that the influences of aerosols and particulate matter

ID from sources such as those in Table A.17.7.1.10(a) are mini-

   mized. Similarly, the influences of electrical and mechanical
   factors shown in Table A.17.7.1.10(b) should be minimized.

IV While it might not be possible to isolate environmental factors

   totally, an awareness of these factors during system layout and

D design favorably affects detector performance.

   A.17.7.1.11 Stratification of air in a room can hinder air

IN containing smoke particles or gaseous combustion products

   from reaching ceiling-mounted smoke detectors or fire­gas
   detectors.

 R Stratification occurs when air containing smoke particles or

   gaseous combustion products is heated by smoldering or burn-

Oing material and, becoming less dense than the surrounding
Fcooler air, rises until it reaches a level at which there is no
                                                                      Stratification also can occur when evaporative coolers are
                                                                   used, because moisture introduced by these devices can
                                                                   condense on smoke, causing it to fall toward the floor. There-
                                                                   fore, to ensure rapid response, it might be necessary to install
                                                                   smoke detectors on sidewalls or at locations below the ceiling.

                                                                      In installations where detection of smoldering or small fires
                                                                   is desired and where the possibility of stratification exists,
                                                                   consideration should be given to mounting a portion of the
                                                                   detectors below the ceiling. In high-ceiling areas, projected
longer a difference in temperature between it and the                             beam­type or air sampling­type detectors at different levels
surrounding air.                                                                  also should be considered. (See Figure A.17.7.1.11.)

 Table A.17.7.1.8 Environmental Conditions that Influence Smoke Detector Response

Detection            Air Velocity   Altitude   Humidity             Temperature      Color of
Protection          >300 ft/min     >3000 ft   >93% RH              <32°F >100°F      Smoke
                  (>91.44 m/min)   (>914.4 m)                      (<0°C >37.8°C)
                                                                                         O
Ion               X                X           X                                  X      X
Photo             O                O           X                                  X      O
Beam              O                O           X                                  X      O
Air sampling      O                O           X                                  X

X: Can affect detector response. O: Generally does not affect detector response.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-236                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table A.17.7.1.10(b) Sources of Electrical and Mechanical  polychromatic light source employed in the smoke box results
   Influences on Smoke Detectors                            in measurements that are highly dependent upon smoke color
                                                            and does not account for variations in light transmission as a
                                                            function of wavelength that occurs as fuels and fire ventilation
        Electrical Noise                      Airflow       rates change or as smoke ages. Furthermore, the measurement
        and Transients                                      apparatus uses a measurement of light obscuration by smoke to

Vibration or shock                            Gusts                               infer a measure of light reflectance when there is no correla-
Radiation                 Excessive velocity                tion between these two optical characteristics.

Radio frequency                                                                   A.17.7.3.1 Except in the case of smoldering, low-energy fires,
Intense light                                                                     all smoke detectors, regardless of the type of technology,
Lightning                                                                         usually rely on the plume and ceiling jet produced by the fire
Electrostatic discharge                                                           to transport the smoke upward and across the ceiling to the
Power supply                                                                      detector, sampling port, or projected sensing light beam. Once
                                                                                  sufficient concentration is attained at the detector, sampling
Y A.17.7.1.12 Construction debris, dust (especially gypsum dust                   port, or sensing light beam location and, in the case of spot-
                                                                                  type detectors, sufficient flow velocity is attained to overcome
and the fines resulting from the sanding of drywall joint                         the flow resistance into the sensing chamber, the detector
                                                                                  responds with an alarm signal. Detectors are usually mounted
L compounds), and aerosols can affect the sensitivity of smoke                    at the ceiling plane to take advantage of the flow provided by
                                                                                  the plume and the ceiling jet. A hot, energetic fire produces
detectors and, in some instances, cause deleterious effects to                    large plume velocities and temperatures and hot, fast ceiling
                                                                                  jets. This minimizes the time it takes for the smoke to travel to
N the detector, thereby significantly reducing the expected life of               the detector. A smoldering fire produces little, if any, plume
                                                                                  and no appreciable ceiling jet. Far more time elapses between
the detector.                                                                     ignition and detection under this circumstance.
                                                                                  A.17.7.3.2 In high-ceiling areas, such as atriums, where spot-
O A.17.7.2 Throughout this Code, smoke detector sensitivity is                    type smoke detectors are not accessible for periodic mainte-
                                                                                  nance and testing, projected beam­type or air sampling­type
referred to in terms of the percent obscuration required to                       detectors should be considered where access can be provided.
                                                                                  A.17.7.3.2.1 Refer to Figure A.17.7.3.2.1 for an example of
E alarm or produce a signal. Smoke detectors are tested using                     proper mounting for detectors. Sidewall detectors mounted
                                                                                  closer to the ceiling will respond faster.
various smoke sources that have different characteristics (e.g.,                  A.17.7.3.2.2 Figure A.17.7.3.2.2 illustrates underfloor mount-
                                                                                  ing installations.
S color, particle size, number of particles, particle shape). Unless              A.17.7.3.2.3.1 The 30 ft (9.1 m) spacing is a guide for
                                                                                  prescriptive designs. The use of such a spacing is based upon
otherwise specified, this Code, the manufacturers, and the list-                  customary practice in the fire alarm community.

U ing agencies report and use the percent obscuration produced

using a specific type of gray smoke. Actual detector response

L will vary when the characteristics of the smoke reaching the

detector are different from the smoke used in testing and

A reporting detector sensitivity.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.17.7.2.1 The production sensitivity range should only be

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} used as a benchmark for testing and should not be used as the

ID sole basis for selection of devices. The percent per foot sensitiv-

ity marked on the smoke detector is derived from testing in a
smoke chamber, usually referred to as the ANSI/UL 268

IV Smoke Box. The measurements derived from this measure-

ment apparatus are only valid in the context of the apparatus
and cannot be used outside the context of the smoke box. The
              IND Smoke detectors at ceiling
                                                                                  Ceiling
FOR Acceptable
                                                                                           Top of detector             12 in.
                                                                                           acceptable here           (300 mm)
                                                                                                                     maximum

A                                                    A

              Smoke detectors below ceiling

                                                                                  Note: Measurements shown are to
                                                                                  the closest edge of the detector.

 36 in. (910 mm) minimum                                                                                                                                     Sidewall
                 High ceiling area CROSS-SECTION A-A
                                                                                  FIGURE A.17.7.3.2.1 Example of Proper Mounting of
FIGURE A.17.7.1.11 Smoke Detector Layout Accounting for                           Smoke Detectors.
Stratification.

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                ANNEX A                                                          72-237

Raised floor  Box secured                       Steel angle or     Junction box secured
panel         to structure                      channel support    at floor support

                                Smoke detector  FMC or EMT         FMC or
              EMT                                                  EMT

                   Clamp

Raised floor

Y panel
              Underfloor mounting orientations -- permitted

              NL Smoke detector
                 O FMC or EMT
                                                FMC or EMT

      SE Underfloor mounting orientations -- not permitted         FMC or
U FIGURE A.17.7.3.2.2 Mounting Installations Permitted (top) and Not Permitted (bottom).EMT

 L Where there are explicit performance objectives for the
A response of the smoke detection system, the performance-

   based design methods outlined in Annex B should be used.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} For the purposes of this section, "nominal 30 ft (9.1 m)"
ID should be determined to be 30 ft (9.1 m) ±5 percent [±18 in.

   (460 mm)].

IV A.17.7.3.2.3.1(2) This is useful in calculating locations in

   corridors or irregular areas [see 17.6.3.1.1 and Figure
   A.17.6.3.1.1(h)]. For irregularly shaped areas, the spacing

D between detectors can be greater than the selected spacing,

   provided the maximum spacing from a detector to the farthest

IN point of a sidewall or corner within its zone of protection is not

   greater than 0.7 times the selected spacing (0.7S).
   A.17.7.3.2.4 Detectors are placed at reduced spacings at right

R angles to joists or beams in an attempt to ensure that detection

   time is equivalent to that which would be experienced on a flat

Oceiling. It takes longer for the combustion products (smoke or
Fheat) to travel at right angles to beams or joists because of the

   phenomenon wherein a plume from a relatively hot fire with
   significant thermal lift tends to fill the pocket between each
   beam or joist before moving to the next beam or joist.
                                                                   bottom of beams as smoke collected in the reservoir volume
                                                                   spills into adjacent pockets. The waffle- or pan-type ceiling
                                                                   created by beams or solid joists, although retarding the initial
                                                                   flow of smoke, results in increased optical density, temperature
                                                                   rise, and gas velocities comparable to unconfined smooth ceil-
                                                                   ings.

                                                                      For waffle- or pan-type ceilings with beams or solid joists, an
                                                                   alternative smoke detector grid arrangement (such as a shifted
                                                                   grid), with detectors located to take advantage of the channel-
                                                                   ing effect due to the reservoirs created by the beam pockets,
                                                                   will improve detector response and might allow greater spac-
                                                                   ing. See Figure A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3)(a) and Figure
                                                                   A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3)(b) for an example of shifted grids. The alter-
                                                                   native smoke detector grid arrangement and spacing should be
                                                                   justified by an engineering analysis comparing the alternative
                                                                   smoke detector grid arrangement with the performance of
                                                                   smoke detectors on a level ceiling of equal height using 30 ft
                                                                   (9.1 m) smoke detector spacing.

                                                                      Figure A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3)(a) illustrates the reservoir and chan-
                                                                   neling effect that results from the deep beam configuration.
                                                                   The strongest gas flows occur in a direction perpendicular to
                                                                   the beam opposite the fire location. The weaker flow occurs in
                                                                   a directional 45 degrees off the beam grid; however, the reser-
   Though it is true that this phenomenon might not be signifi-    voir effect accounts for higher concentrations of smoke eventu-
cant in a small smoldering fire where there is only enough ther-   ally flowing from the strong area reservoirs into the weak area
mal lift to cause stratification at the bottom of the joists,      reservoirs.
reduced spacing is still recommended to ensure that detection
time is equivalent to that which would exist on a flat ceiling,
even in the case of a hotter type of fire.                            Figure A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3)(b) is a generic example illustrating
                                                                   how a smoke detection grid using 30 ft (9.1 m) spacing can be
                                                                   shifted to take advantage of the channeling and reservoir effect
A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3) The geometry and reservoir effect is a signifi-  to optimize detection response. In the circle, the fire is split
cant factor that contributes to the development of velocity,       into four beam bays that must fill with smoke before apprecia-
temperature, and smoke obscuration conditions at smoke             ble flows occur into the next adjoining eight beam bays. This
detectors located on the ceiling in beam pocket areas or at the

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-238                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        12 ft × 12 ft (3.7 m × 3.7 m), 24 in. (610 mm) deep beams, 180 sec

                                                                            Slice
                                                                              ext
                                                                             1/m

                                                                            0.80

                                                                            0.72

                                                                            0.64
                                                                            0.56

Strong flow                                        0.48

                            Weak flow 0.40

                                                   0.32

                                                   0.24

                                                                                  0.16
                                                                                  0.08
                                                                                  0.00

                            Slice at bottom of beam
              Y Slice under ceiling
NL FIGURE A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3)(a) Reservoir and Channeling Effect of Deep Beams.
              SE O Shifted array -- keyed to X locations
                                                                                        D/H £ 0.1  D/H > 0.1

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UAL U A                                                                                                  Upslope
          8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} C
              ID Y21                                                           FIGURE A.17.7.3.2.4.5 Spot-Type Detector Spacing for
              IV Y24     B                                                     Sloping Ceilings with Beam Pockets.

              X                                                                A.17.7.3.2.4.4 Irregular area spacing guidance for level beam
                                                                               ceilings can be used. Computer modeling has shown that spot-
D FIGURE A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3)(b) Shifted Smoke Detection Grid                     type detectors should be located on the bottom of perpendicu-
                                                                               lar beams.
to Optimize Detection for Deep Beam Effects.                                   A.17.7.3.2.4.5 Computer modeling has shown that spot-type
IN represents the worst case scenario for smoke to reach the                   detectors should be located on the bottom of perpendicular
                                                                               beams and should be aligned with the center of pocket, as
detectors on the circle. The three other fire locations shown                  shown, in Figure A.17.7.3.2.4.5.
                                                                               A.17.7.3.3 Refer to Figure A.17.6.3.4(a).
R require the fire to initially fill only one or two bays before spill-        A.17.7.3.4 Refer to Figure A.17.6.3.4(b).
                                                                            N· A.17.7.3.6.1.1 For an air sampling­-type smoke detector, the
ing to adjacent bays.                                                          sensitivity at the detector is not equal to sensitivity at the
                                                                               sampling port. Sampling port sensitivity is dependent on two
O A.17.7.3.2.4.2(4) Corridor geometry is a significant factor that             main factors:
Fcontributes to the development of velocity, temperature, and
                                                                            (1) The number of sampling ports in the piping network
smoke obscuration conditions at smoke detectors located along
a corridor. This is based on the fact that the ceiling jet is
confined or constrained by the nearby walls without opportu-                (2) The set alarm sensitivity of the detector

nity for entrainment of air. For corridors of approximately 15 ft              In the absence of performance-based criteria, the sensitivity
(4.6 m) in width and for fires of approximately 100 kW or                   at each sampling port of an air sampling-type smoke detector
greater, modeling has demonstrated that the performance of                  should not exceed the 4 percent ft obscuration criteria of a
smoke detectors in corridors with beams has been shown to be                spot-type smoke detector.
comparable to spot smoke detector spacing on an unconfined
smooth ceiling surface.                                                     N A.17.7.3.6.2.6 Identification can include means such as mark-
                                                                            ing or use of a configuration management program that identi-
A.17.7.3.2.4.3 A smoke detector should be placed within each                fies locations.
beam channel. Computer modeling has shown that parallel
beams (upslope) are very effective at channeling smoke, and N A.17.7.3.6.2.7 A benchmark test point should be provided at
smoke spillover is rarely detectable in adjacent parallel pockets.          the furthest end of each pipe run, opposite the end of the air

2019 Edition                Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX A                                                                                                                                72-239

sampling­type smoke detector apparatus. This remote test                             A.17.7.5 Refer to NFPA 101 for the definition of smoke
point is intended to benchmark system performance at the                             compartment; NFPA 90A for the definition of duct systems; and
time of initial commissioning and during routine test and                            NFPA 92, for the definition of smoke zone.
inspection. The test point should be labeled to document
benchmark system performance at the time of commissioning,                           A.17.7.5.1 Smoke detectors located in an open area(s) should
using manufacturer-supplied labels intended for this purpose.                        be used rather than duct-type detectors because of the dilution
Benchmark labels should be placed just above test points and                         effect in air ducts. Active smoke management systems installed
be positioned so that they are visible without obstruction.                          in accordance with NFPA 92 should be controlled by total
                                                                                     coverage open area detection.
N A.17.7.3.6.2.9 Where installed in areas having environmental
   conditions such as high temperature or humidity, radiation or                     A.17.7.5.2 Dilution of smoke-laden air by clean air from other
   corrosive atmospheres, all pipe network materials should be                       parts of the building or dilution by outside air intakes can allow
   suitable for the specific environmental conditions anticipated.                   high densities of smoke in a single room with no appreciable
                                                                                     smoke in the air duct at the detector location. Smoke might
N A.17.7.3.6.3.1 Where the pipe network connects to the detec-                       not be drawn from open areas if air-conditioning systems or
   tor, refer to the manufacturer's published instructions for                       ventilating systems are shut down.
                                                                                     A.17.7.5.3 Smoke detectors can be applied in order to initiate
Y implementation of this connection.                                                 control of smoke spread for the following purposes:
L N A.17.7.3.6.3.3 Care should be exercised when attaching                           (1) Prevention of the recirculation of dangerous quantities of

   clamps to ensure that the pipe is not damaged and to allow for                           smoke within a building
                                                                                     (2) Selective operation of equipment to exhaust smoke from
N expansion and contraction of the pipe.
                                                                                            a building
N A.17.7.3.6.4.2 Electrical equipment cabinets are commonly                          (3) Selective operation of equipment to pressurize smoke

O ventilated vertically (bottom to top passive cooling) or horizon-                         compartments
                                                                                     (4) Operation of doors and dampers to close the openings in
   tally (front to back passive cooling) or are fully enclosed with
                                                                                            smoke compartments
E active internal cooling. For passively cooled applications, the                    A.17.7.5.4.2 Smoke detectors are designed to sense the pres-
                                                                                     ence of particles of combustion, but depending on the sensing
   sampling pipe can be located external to the cabinet with                         technology and other design factors, different detectors
                                                                                     respond to different types of particles. Detectors based on ioni-
S sampling ports directly in the main airflow of the exhaust vents                   zation detection technology are most responsive to smaller,
                                                                                     invisible sub-micron sized particles. Detectors based on photo-
   or in the cabinet with the sampling port(s) located within 1 in.                  electric technology, by contrast, are most responsive to larger
                                                                                     visible particles.
U to 2 in. (25 mm to 50 mm) of the cabinet top. For fully
                                                                                        It is generally accepted that particle size distribution varies
   enclosed cabinets, the sampling port is located in the cabinet                    from sub-micron diameter particles predominant in the prox-
                                                                                     imity of the flame of a flaming fire to particles one or more
L within 1 in. to 2 in. (25 mm to 50 mm) from the cabinet top. In                    orders of magnitude larger, which are characteristic of smoke
                                                                                     from a smoldering fire. The actual particle size distribution
   either case, the manufacturer's published installation instruc-                   depends on a host of other variables including the fuel and its
                                                                                     physical make-up, the availability of oxygen including air
A tions should be followed.
                                                                                     Projector  ¹/ S                  Receiver
   A.17.7.3.7 On smooth ceilings, a spacing of not more than

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 60 ft (18.3 m) between projected beams and not more than
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} one-half that spacing between a projected beam and a sidewall

   (wall parallel to the beam travel) should be used as a guide.
   Other spacing should be determined based on ceiling height,

IV airflow characteristics, and response requirements.
      In some cases, the light beam projector is mounted on one

D end wall, with the light beam receiver mounted on the opposite

   wall. However, it is also permitted to suspend the projector and

IN receiver from the ceiling at a distance from the end walls not

   exceeding one-quarter the selected spacing (S). (See Figure
   A.17.7.3.7.)

R A.17.7.3.7.8 Where the light path of a projected beam­type

   detector is abruptly interrupted or obscured, the unit should

Onot initiate an alarm. It should give a trouble signal after verifi-
Fcation of blockage.
A.17.7.4.1 Detectors should not be located in a direct airflow                       ¹/ S                                        ¹/ S
or closer than 36 in. (910 mm) from an air supply diffuser or
return air opening. Supply or return sources larger than those                                  S
commonly found in residential and small commercial establish-
ments can require greater clearance to smoke detectors. Simi-                        Projector                        Receiver
larly, smoke detectors should be located farther away from high                                                 ¹/ S
velocity air supplies. See B.4.10.
A.17.7.4.4 Smoke might not be drawn into the duct or                                 S = Selected detector spacing
plenums when the ventilating system is shut down. Further-
more, when the ventilating system is operating, the detector(s)                      FIGURE A.17.7.3.7 Maximum Distance at Which Ceiling-
can be less responsive to a fire condition in the room of fire                       Suspended Light Projector and Receiver Can Be Positioned
origin due to dilution by clean air.                                                 from End Wall Is One-Quarter Selected Spacing (S).

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-240              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

supply and fire­gas discharge, and other ambient conditions,                  Width up to                             Width up to
especially humidity. Moreover, the particle size distribution is                  36 in.                            72 in. (1.83 m)
not constant, but as the fire gases cool, the sub-micron particles
agglomerate and the very large ones precipitate. In other                      (910 mm)
words, as smoke travels away from the fire source, the particle
size distribution shows a relative decrease in smaller particles.             ¹/ w          Depth up       ¹/ w                 ¹/ w
Water vapor, which is abundantly present in most fires, when                         S       to 36 in.          S           S
cooled sufficiently will condense to form fog particles -- an                         ¹/ d  (910 mm)                 ¹/ d
effect frequently seen above tall chimneys. Because water
condensation is basically clear in color, when it is mixed with       18 in.                                 24 in.
other smoke particles, it can be expected to lighten the color of   (460 mm)                               (610 mm)
the mixture.                                                        maximum
                                                                                      72 in. (1.83 m)

   In almost every fire scenario in an air-handling system, the     Depth                      Detectors                    One detector
point of detection will be some distance from the fire source;      up to                   evenly spaced                   for each full
therefore, the smoke will be cooler and more visible because of     36 in.                                                  24 in. (610 mm)
                                                                                   S        S              S                of additional
Y the growth of sub-micron particles into larger particles due to                                                           opening width
L agglomeration and recombination. For these reasons, photo-        (910 mm) ¹/ d

electric detection technology has advantages over ionization        S = Smoke detector                     18 in. (460 mm)
                                                                    d = Depth                                 maximum
N detection technology in air duct system applications.             w = Width

A.17.7.5.4.2.2 Detectors listed for the air velocity present can    FIGURE A.17.7.5.4.2.2(a) Location of Smoke Detector(s) in
                                                                    Return Air System Openings for Selective Operation of
O be permitted to be installed at the opening where the return      Equipment.

air enters the common return air system. The detectors should                 Smoke detector(s) here
                                                                              [see Figure A.17.7.5.4.2.2(a) or 17.7.5.5.2]
E be installed up to 12 in. (300 mm) in front of or behind the
                                                                    Nonducted return                       Ceiling
opening and spaced according to the following opening               air system

S dimensions [see Figure A.17.7.5.4.2.2(a) through Figure           Ducted return           Smoke detector
                                                                    air system              anywhere here
A.17.7.5.4.2.2(c)]:
                                                                                                             Smoke barrier
U (1) Width.
       (a) Up to 36 in. (910 mm) -- One detector centered in
  L opening
       (b) Up to 72 in. (1.83 m) -- Two detectors located at
  A the one-quarter points of the opening
       (c) Over 72 in. (1.83 m) -- One additional detector for
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U each full 24 in. (610 mm) of opening

ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (2) Depth. The number and spacing of the detector(s) in the
       depth (vertical) of the opening should be the same as
       those given for the width (horizontal) in
 IV A.17.7.5.4.2.2(1).
(3) Orientation. Detectors should be oriented in the most

       favorable position for smoke entry with respect to the

 D direction of airflow. The path of a projected beam­type

       detector across the return air openings should be consid-

 IN ered equivalent in coverage to a row of individual detec-

       tors.
   Additional duct smoke detection is not required where the

R air leaves each smoke compartment or in the duct system

before the air enters the return air system in the return air of a

O smoke compartment provided with total (complete) smoke
Fdetection compliant with 17.5.3 because the addition of duct
                                                                                                       Common return air system serving
                                                                                                       more than one smoke compartment

                                                                    FIGURE A.17.7.5.4.2.2(b) Location of Smoke Detector(s) in
                                                                    Return Air Systems for Selective Operation of Equipment.

smoke detection would essentially not add any substantial
detection benefit.
                                                                    In return air systems, the requirements of 17.7.5.4.2.2 take
                                                                    precedence over these considerations. [See Figure
A.17.7.5.5.2 Where duct detectors are used to initiate the          A.17.7.5.5.2(a) and Figure A.17.7.5.5.2(b).]
operation of smoke dampers, they should be located so that
the detector is between the last inlet or outlet upstream of the
damper and the first inlet or outlet downstream of the damper.         Usually, it is necessary to manage smoke flow in buildings.
                                                                    Duct smoke detectors are used to shut down HVAC systems or
                                                                    initiate smoke management.
In order to obtain a representative sample, stratification and
dead air space should be avoided. Such conditions could be
caused by return duct openings, sharp turns, or connections, as        Filters have a serious effect on the performance of duct
well as by long, uninterrupted straight runs.                       smoke detectors. The location of the detector relative to the
                                                                    filter and the source of smoke must be considered during the
                                                                    design process. Where smoke detectors are installed down-
                                                                    stream from filters, they should be deemed to serve the
                                                                    purpose of providing an alarm indication of the occurrence of

2019 Edition        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                   ANNEX A                                                                       72-241

                  Preferred location of the detector in the duct;                    A.17.7.5.6.5.1(C) If the depth of wall section above the door is
                  more than one detector location is not required                    60 in.(1.52 m) or greater, additional detectors might be
                                                                                     required as indicated by an engineering evaluation.

     Smoke        Ceiling                       Smoke                                A.17.7.6.1.2 Airflow through holes in the rear of a smoke
compartment 1            Smoke             compartment 3                             detector can interfere with smoke entry to the sensing cham-
                                                                                     ber. Similarly, air from the conduit system can flow around the
                   compartment 2                                                     outside edges of the detector and interfere with smoke reach-
                                                                                     ing the sensing chamber. Additionally, holes in the rear of a
                    Smoke barrier                                                    detector provide a means for entry of dust, dirt, and insects,
                                                                                     each of which can adversely affect the detector's performance.

                        Common return air system                                     A.17.7.6.2 For the most effective detection of fire in high-rack

                     Acceptable location for a smoke                                    storage areas, detectors should be located on the ceiling above
                     detector in an air duct                                            each aisle and at intermediate levels in the racks. This is neces-
                                                                                        sary to detect smoke that is trapped in the racks at an early
  FIGURE A.17.7.5.4.2.2(c) Detector Location in Duct that                               stage of fire development when insufficient thermal energy is
                                                                                        released to carry the smoke to the ceiling. Earliest detection of
Y Passes Through Smoke Compartments Not Served by Duct.                                 smoke is achieved by locating the intermediate level detectors
L a fire in the HVAC unit (filters, belts, heat exchangers, etc.).                      adjacent to alternate pallet sections as shown in Figure
N These detectors usually serve the purpose of protecting build-                        A.17.7.6.2(a) and Figure A.17.7.6.2(b). The detector manufac-
                                                                                        turer's published instructions and engineering judgment
  ing occupants from the smoke produced by an HVAC unit fire,                           should be followed for specific installations.

O or smoke ingress via the fresh air intake for the unit. They                             A projected beam­type detector can be permitted to be used
                                                                                        in lieu of a single row of individual spot-type smoke detectors.
  cannot be expected to serve the purpose of providing detection
                                                                                           Sampling ports of an air sampling­type detector can be
E for the return side of the system.                                                    permitted to be located above each aisle to provide coverage
     Where return side detection is required, that requirement                          that is equivalent to the location of spot-type detectors. The
                                                                                        manufacturer's published instructions and engineering judg-
S should be fulfilled with separate detectors from those monitor-                       ment should be followed for the specific installation.
                                                                                     N A.17.7.6.3.1 Detectors provided for the control of smoke
  ing the supply side. In order to be effective, return air duct                        spread are covered by the requirements of 17.7.5.
                                                                                        A.17.7.6.3.3 Smoke detector spacing depends on the move-
U smoke detectors should be located such that there are no filters                      ment of air within the room.
                                                                                        A.17.7.7.3 Facility owners and managers might desire to use
  between them and the source of the smoke.                                             cameras and their images for purposes other than smoke detec-
                                                                                        tion. The intent of this paragraph is not to prohibit additional
 L Sampling tubes should be oriented to overcome thermal                                uses, but to ensure the integrity of the life safety smoke detec-
A stratification due to buoyancy of the smoke in the upper half of                      tion mission of the equipment.

  the duct. This condition occurs where duct velocities are low,                                              Tube support hole only for ducts
                                                                                                              more than 36 in. (910 mm) wide
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U buoyancy exceeds flow inertia, or the detector is installed close

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} to the fire compartment. A vertical orientation of sampling

ID tubes overcomes the effects of differential buoyancy.
     Where a detector is installed on a duct serving a single fire

IV compartment, where the buoyancy exceeds the flow inertia of

  the air in the duct and the sampling tube cannot be oriented
  vertically, then the effects of thermal stratification can be mini-

D mized by locating the detector sampling tube in the upper half

  of the duct.

 IN The thermal stratification is not a concern where the detec-

  tor is installed far from the fire compartment or where the
  smoke is at or close to the average temperature in the duct.
FOR Duct width
                                                                                                                              Airflow direction

Independent support (unless box is listed  Air duct                                               Insert a plug in this
for pendant mounting)                                                                             end of inlet tube.

         Conduit                                                                                  Expected airflow
Electrical box                                                                                    direction

Detector                                                                                          Return tube slant cut face
                                                                                                  oriented downstream
                                                              Access                 Inlet tube   of airflow
                                                              panel door             holes face
                                                                                     upstream     Do not insert a plug in
                        Pendant-Mounted Air Duct                                     of airflow.  the return (exhaust) tube.

FIGURE A.17.7.5.5.2(a)                                                               FIGURE A.17.7.5.5.2(b) Inlet Tube Orientation.
Installation.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-242                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

ELEVATION                                                         ELEVATION

NLY PLAN
    L USE O Detectors on ceiling                                  PLAN
    A Detectors on racks

                         (upper intermediate level)

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Detectors on racks
        8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (lower intermediate level)

ID FIGURE A.17.7.6.2(a) Detector Location for Solid Storage

(Closed Rack) in Which Transverse and Longitudinal Flue

IV Spaces Are Irregular or Nonexistent, as for Slatted or Solid

Shelved Storage.

D A.17.7.7.4 Video image smoke detection control and software
IN should be protected from tampering by passwords, software

keys, or other means of limiting access to authorized/qualified
personnel. Component settings include any control or
programming that might affect the operation of coverage of

R the detection. This includes, but is not limited to, camera

focus, field of view, motion sensitivity settings, and change of

O camera position. Any changes in component settings or ambi-
Fent conditions that affect the design performance of the detec-

tor should initiate a trouble signal.
                                                                                           Detectors on ceiling
                                                                                           Detectors in racks at upper
                                                                                           intermediate level
                                                                                           Detectors in racks at lower
                                                                                           intermediate level

                                                                  FIGURE A.17.7.6.2(b) Detector Location for Palletized
                                                                  Storage (Open Rack) or No Shelved Storage in Which Regular
                                                                  Transverse and Longitudinal Flue Spaces Are Maintained.

                                                                  Table A.17.8.1 Spectrum Wavelength Ranges

                                                                             Radiant Energy                         µm

                                                                                  Ultraviolet                       0.1­0.35
                                                                                    Visible                         0.36­0.75
                                                                                   Infrared                         0.76­220

                                                                  Conversion factors: 1.0 µm = 1000 nm = 10,000 Å.

A.17.8.1 For the purpose of this Code, radiant energy includes          ultraviolet radiation that is produced by a flame. The
                                                                        photodiode allows a burst of current to flow for each
                                                                        ultraviolet photon that hits the active area of the tube.
the electromagnetic radiation emitted as a by-product of the            When the number of current bursts per unit time reaches
combustion reaction, which obeys the laws of optics. This
includes radiation in the ultraviolet, visible, and infrared            a predetermined level, the detector initiates an alarm. A
                                                                        single wavelength infrared flame detector uses one of
portions of the spectrum emitted by flames or glowing embers.           several different photocell types to detect the infrared
These portions of the spectrum are distinguished by wave-
lengths as shown in Table A.17.8.1.                                     emissions in a single wavelength band that are produced
                                                                        by a flame. These detectors generally include provisions
                                                                        to minimize alarms from commonly occurring infrared
A.17.8.2 Following are operating principles for two types of            sources such as incandescent lighting or sunlight. An
detectors:                                                              ultraviolet/infrared (UV/IR) flame detector senses ultra-

(1) Flame Detectors. Ultraviolet flame detectors typically use a        violet radiation with a vacuum photodiode tube and a
vacuum photodiode Geiger­Muller tube to detect the
                                                                        selected wavelength of infrared radiation with a photocell

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                      ANNEX A                                                                               72-243

and uses the combined signal to indicate a fire. These             technology used should take into account those normally
detectors need exposure to both types of radiation before          occurring aerosols and surface deposits to minimize the reduc-
an alarm signal can be initiated. A multiple wavelength            tion of system response between maintenance intervals. It
infrared (IR/IR) flame detector senses radiation at two or         should be noted that the smoke evolved from the combustion
more narrow bands of wavelengths in the infrared spec-             of middle and heavy fraction petroleum distillates is highly
trum. These detectors electronically compare the emis-             absorptive in the ultraviolet end of the spectrum. If using this
sions between the bands and initiate a signal where the            type of detection, the system should be designed to minimize
relationship between the two bands indicates a fire.               the effect of smoke interference on the response of the detec-
(2) Spark/Ember Detectors. A spark/ember-sensing detector          tion system.
          usually uses a solid state photodiode or phototransistor to
          sense the radiant energy emitted by embers, typically       The environment and ambient conditions anticipated in the
          between 0.5 microns and 2.0 microns in normally dark     area to be protected impact the choice of detector. All detec-
          environments. These detectors can be made extremely      tors have limitations on the range of ambient temperatures
          sensitive (microwatts), and their response times can be  over which they will respond, consistent with their tested or
          made very short (microseconds).                          approved sensitivities. The designer should make certain that
                                                                   the detector is compatible with the range of ambient tempera-
Y A.17.8.2.1 The radiant energy from a flame or spark/ember is     tures anticipated in the area in which it is installed. In addition,
L comprised of emissions in various bands of the ultraviolet, visi-rain, snow, and ice attenuate both ultraviolet and infrared radi-
                                                                   ation to varying degrees. Where anticipated, provisions should
   ble, and infrared portions of the spectrum. The relative quanti-be made to protect the detector from accumulations of these
                                                                   materials on its optical surfaces.
N ties of radiation emitted in each part of the spectrum are       A.17.8.2.2 Normal radiant emissions that are not from a fire
                                                                   can be present in the hazard area. When selecting a detector
   determined by the fuel chemistry, the temperature, and the      for an area, other potential sources of radiant emissions should
                                                                   be evaluated. Refer to A.17.8.2.1 for additional information.
O rate of combustion. The detector should be matched to the        A.17.8.3.1.1 All optical detectors respond according to the
                                                                   following theoretical equation:
   characteristics of the fire.
                                                                                                                              [A.17.8.3.1.1]
 E Almost all materials that participate in flaming combustion
                                                                                                      S = kP -ed
   emit ultraviolet radiation to some degree during flaming                                                  d2

S combustion, whereas only carbon-containing fuels emit signifi-   where:
                                                                   S = radiant power reaching the detector
   cant radiation at the 4.35 micron (carbon dioxide) band used    k = proportionality constant for the detector
                                                                   P = radiant power emitted by the fire
U by many detector types to detect a flame. (See Figure A.17.8.2.1.)e = Naperian logarithm base (2.7183)
      The radiant energy emitted from an ember is determined        = extinction coefficient of air
                                                                   d = distance between the fire and the detector
L primarily by the fuel temperature (Planck's law emissions) and
                                                                                       Ultraviolet Visible  Infrared
   the emissivity of the fuel. Radiant energy from an ember is

A primarily infrared and, to a lesser degree, visible in wavelength.

   In general, embers do not emit ultraviolet energy in significant

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U quantities (0.1 percent of total emissions) until the ember

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} achieves temperatures of 3240°F (1727°C or 2000°K). In most

ID cases, the emissions are included in the band of 0.8 microns to

   2.0 microns, corresponding to temperatures of approximately

IV 750°F to 1830°F (398°C to 1000°C).
      Most radiant energy detectors have some form of qualifica-

D tion circuitry within them that uses time to help distinguish

   between spurious, transient signals and legitimate fire alarms.

IN These circuits become very important where the anticipated

   fire scenario and the ability of the detector to respond to that
   anticipated fire are considered. For example, a detector that
   uses an integration circuit or a timing circuit to respond to the

R flickering light from a fire might not respond well to a defla-

   gration resulting from the ignition of accumulated combustible

Ovapors and gases, or where the fire is a spark that is traveling up
Fto 328 ft/sec (100 m/sec) past the detector. Under these
                                                                                                            C-C H2O/CO2

                                                                                                                         CO2

circumstances, a detector that has a high-speed response capa-     Relative intensity                       C-H
bility is most appropriate. On the other hand, in applications
where the development of the fire is slower, a detector that uses
                                                                                                                         CO

time for the confirmation of repetitive signals is appropriate.                                                               NO, NO2, N2O
Consequently, the fire growth rate should be considered in
selecting the detector. The detector performance should be
selected to respond to the anticipated fire.

   The radiant emissions are not the only criteria to be consid-               0.1 0.5 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0
ered. The medium between the anticipated fire and the detec-                                          Wavelength (µm)
tor is also very important. Different wavelengths of radiant
energy are absorbed with varying degrees of efficiency by mate-    FIGURE A.17.8.2.1 Spectrum of Typical Flame (Free-
rials that are suspended in the air or that accumulate on the      Burning Gasoline).
optical surfaces of the detector. Generally, aerosols and surface
deposits reduce the sensitivity of the detector. The detection

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-244                                                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                      The sensitivity (S) typically is measured in nanowatts. This   (1) Sunlight
equation yields a family of curves similar to the one shown in                       (2) Lightning
Figure A.17.8.3.1.1.                                                                 (3) X-rays
                                                                                     (4) Gamma rays
   The curve defines the maximum distance at which the detec-                        (5) Cosmic rays
tor consistently detects a fire of defined size and fuel. Detectors                  (6) Ultraviolet radiation from arc welding
should be employed only in the shaded area above the curve.                          (7) Electromagnetic interference (EMI, RFI)

   Under the best of conditions, with no atmospheric absorp-                         (8) Hot objects
tion, the radiant power reaching the detector is reduced by a                        (9) Artificial lighting

factor of 4 if the distance between the detector and the fire is                     A.17.8.3.2.3 The greater the angular displacement of the fire
doubled. For the consumption of the atmospheric extinction,                          from the optical axis of the detector, the larger the fire must
the exponential term zeta () is added to the equation. Zeta is                       become before it is detected. This phenomenon establishes the
a measure of the clarity of the air at the wavelength under                          field of view of the detector. Figure A.17.8.3.2.3 shows an exam-
consideration. Zeta is affected by humidity, dust, and any other                     ple of the effective sensitivity versus angular displacement of a
contaminants in the air that are absorbent at the wavelength in                      flame detector.
                                                                                     A.17.8.3.2.4 Virtually all radiant energy­sensing detectors
Y question. Zeta generally has values between -0.001 and -0.1 for                    exhibit some kind of fuel specificity. If burned at uniform rates
                                                                                     [W (J/sec)], different fuels emit different levels of radiant
normal ambient air.                                                                  power in the ultraviolet, visible, and infrared portions of the
                                                                                     spectrum. Under free-burn conditions, a fire of given surface
L A.17.8.3.2.1 The following are types of application for which                      area but of different fuels burns at different rates [W (J/sec)]
N flame detectors are suitable:                                                      and emits varying levels of radiation in each of the major
                                                                                     portions of the spectrum. Most radiant energy detectors
(1) High-ceiling, open-spaced buildings such as warehouses                           designed to detect flame are qualified on the basis of a defined
                                                                                     fire under specific conditions. If employing these detectors for
 O and aircraft hangars                                                              fuels other than the defined fire, the designer should make
                                                                                     certain that the appropriate adjustments to the maximum
(2) Outdoor or semioutdoor areas where winds or drafts can                           distance between the detector and the fire are made consistent
                                                                                     with the fuel specificity of the detector.
 E prevent smoke from reaching a heat or smoke detector                              A.17.8.3.2.6 This requirement has been satisfied by the follow-
                                                                                     ing means:
(3) Areas where rapidly developing flaming fires can occur,                          (1) Lens clarity monitoring and cleaning where a contamina-

 S such as aircraft hangars, petrochemical production areas,                                ted lens signal is rendered
                                                                                     (2) Lens air purge
       storage and transfer areas, natural gas installations, paint
                                                                                        The need to clean detector windows can be reduced by the
 U shops, or solvent areas                                                           provision of air purge devices. These devices are not foolproof,
                                                                                     however, and are not a replacement for regular inspection and
(4) Areas needing high fire risk machinery or installations,                         testing. Radiant energy­sensing detectors should not be placed
                                                                                     in protective housings (e.g., behind glass) to keep them clean,
 L often coupled with an automatic gas extinguishing system                          unless such housings are listed for the purpose. Some optical
                                                                                     materials are absorptive at the wavelengths used by the detec-
(5) Environments that are unsuitable for other types of detec-                       tor.

 A tors

   Some extraneous sources of radiant emissions that have

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U been identified as interfering with the stability of flame detec-

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tors include the following:
                      IVID 16
                      D 1415
                      IN 13
                      12R 10

Normalized fire size  11O8

                    F79                                                                                           Normal            Angle of incidence

                                                                                                      15°         0°      15°       with radiant
                                                                                                                                    power constant
                                 Distance and size                                               30°                           30°

                                 criteria for application                                                                           45°
                                 should fall in shaded

                        6        area.                                                    45°

                        5                                                            60°                                                 60°

                      4

                        3

                        2

                        1                                                            1.0 0.75 0.50 0.25                         0.25 0.50 0.75 1.0
                                                                                                                                 Normalized distance
                           1  2  3      4  5                                         FIGURE A.17.8.3.2.3                         from detector
                                                                                     Displacement.
                           Normalized distance between detector and fire                                          Normalized Sensitivity vs. Angular

FIGURE A.17.8.3.1.1 Normalized Fire Size vs. Distance.

2019 Edition                        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             ANNEX A                                                                                                  72-245

A.17.8.3.3.1 Spark/ember detectors are installed primarily to                                      (7) Gas characteristics of the gases present
detect sparks and embers that could, if allowed to continue to                                     (8) Configuration of the contents in the area to be protected
burn, precipitate a much larger fire or explosion. Spark/ember                                     (9) Response time(s)
detectors are typically mounted on some form of duct or                                            A.17.11.2 Examples of such combustion effects are water
conveyor, monitoring the fuel as it passes by. Usually, it is neces-                               vapor, ionized molecules, or other phenomena for which they
sary to enclose the portion of the conveyor where the detectors                                    are designed. The performance characteristics of the detector
are located, as these devices generally require a dark environ-                                    and the area into which it is to be installed should be evaluated
ment. Extraneous sources of radiant emissions that have been                                       to minimize nuisance alarms or conditions that would interfere
identified as interfering with the stability of spark/ember                                        with operation.
detectors include the following:

(1) Ambient light                                                                                  N A.17.12.1(1) Carbon monoxide detectors are located on the
                                                                                                   ceiling above permanently installed fuel-burning appliances
(2) Electromagnetic interference (EMI, RFI)                                                           because of the buoyancy of the heated combustion gases as
   (3) Electrostatic discharge in the fuel stream                                                     compared to normal ambient temperatures. Detectors should
   A.17.8.3.3.2 There is a minimum ignition power (watts) for all                                     be located as close as practical to the permanently installed
                                                                                                      fuel-burning appliance consistent with considerations of detec-
Y combustible dusts. If the spark or ember is incapable of deliver-                                   tor accessibility, sources of detector contamination, and
                                                                                                      nuisance sources. Siting considerations can include transient
   ing that quantity of power to the adjacent combustible material                                    backdrafting spillage of flue gases during startup and ventila-
                                                                                                      tion supply or exhaust vents.
L (dust), an expanding dust fire cannot occur. The minimum                                         N A.17.12.1(2) The purpose of detectors centrally located on
                                                                                                      every habitable level is to detect the migration of carbon
   ignition power is determined by the fuel chemistry, fuel parti-                                    monoxide from permanently installed fuel-burning appliances
                                                                                                      and other sources of carbon monoxide. Other sources of
N cle size, fuel concentration in air, and ambient conditions such                                    carbon monoxide can include vehicles or other equipment that
                                                                                                      uses an internal combustion engine, barbecue grills, propane
   as temperature and humidity.                                                                       operated equipment, and systems used to generate hydrogen.
                                                                                                      Detector location and spacing should be based on an engineer-
O A.17.8.3.3.4 As the distance between the fire and the detector                                      ing evaluation that considers potential sources and migration
                                                                                                      of carbon monoxide. HVAC systems should be considered in
   increases, the radiant power reaching the detector decreases.                                      the locating of carbon monoxide detectors because the HVAC
                                                                                                      systems provide a good means of mixing and the migration of
E Refer to A.17.8.3.1.1 for additional information.                                                   carbon monoxide. Other considerations when locating carbon
S A.17.8.3.3.5 The greater the angular displacement of the fire                                       monoxide detectors are areas with closed doors and rated
                                                                                                      demising walls, which can isolate or separate areas within
   from the optical axis of the detector, the larger the fire must                                    HVAC zones. Additional information for the location of carbon
                                                                                                      monoxide detectors is available in the Fire Protection Research
U become before it is detected. This phenomenon establishes the                                       Foundation (FPRF) technical report, "Development of a Tech-
                                                                                                      nical Basis for Carbon Monoxide Detector Siting."
   field of view of the detector. Figure A.17.8.3.2.3 shows an exam-                                  A.17.13.1 Piping between the sprinkler system and a pressure
                                                                                                      actuated alarm-initiating device should be galvanized or of
L ple of the effective sensitivity versus angular displacement of a                                   nonferrous metal or other approved corrosion-resistant mate-
                                                                                                      rial of not less than 38 in. (9.5 mm) nominal pipe size.
   flame detector.                                                                                    A.17.13.2 The waterflow device or the combination of the
                                                                                                      waterflow devices and fire alarm system should be field configu-
A A.17.8.3.3.6 This requirement has been satisfied by the follow-                                     rable so that an alarm is initiated no more than 90 seconds
                                                                                                      after a sustained flow of at least 10 gpm (40 L/min).
   ing means:
                                                                                                         Features that should be investigated to minimize alarm
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (1) Lens clarity monitoring and cleaning where a contamina-
  ID ted lens signal is rendered

   (2) Lens air purge

IV A.17.8.5.3 Facility owners and managers might desire to use

   cameras and their images for purposes other than flame detec-
   tion. The intent of this paragraph is not to prohibit additional

D uses, but to ensure the integrity of the life safety flame detec-

   tion mission of the equipment.

IN A.17.8.5.4 Video image flame detection control and software

   should be protected from tampering by passwords, software
   keys, or other means of limiting access to authorized/qualified

R personnel. Component settings include any control or

   programming that might affect the operation of coverage of

Othe detection. This includes, but is not limited to, camera
Ffocus, field of view, motion sensitivity settings, and change of
camera position. Any changes in component settings or ambi-                                        response time include the following:
ent conditions that affect the design performance of the detec-
tor should initiate a trouble signal.                                                              (1) Elimination of trapped air in the sprinkler system piping
                                                                                                   (2) Use of an excess pressure pump
A.17.10.2.4 The engineering evaluation should include, but is                                      (3) Use of pressure drop alarm-initiating devices
not limited to, the following:                                                                     (4) A combination thereof

(1) Structural features, size, and shape of the rooms and bays                                        Care should be used when choosing waterflow alarm-
(2) Occupancy and uses of areas                                                                    initiating devices for hydraulically calculated looped systems
(3) Ceiling heights                                                                                and those systems using small orifice sprinklers. Such systems
(4) Ceiling shape, surface, and obstructions                                                       might incorporate a single point flow of significantly less than
(5) Ventilation                                                                                    10 gpm (40 L/min). In such cases, additional waterflow alarm-
(6) Ambient environment                                                                            initiating devices or the use of pressure drop-type waterflow
                                                                                                   alarm-initiating devices might be necessary.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-246                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Care should be used when choosing waterflow alarm-                              A.17.15.9.5 It is not the intent of 17.15.9.5 to require manual
initiating devices for sprinkler systems that use on­off sprin-                 fire alarm boxes to be attached to movable partitions or to
klers to ensure that an alarm is initiated in the event of a                    equipment, nor to require the installation of permanent struc-
waterflow condition. On­off sprinklers open at a predeter-                      tures for mounting purposes only.
mined temperature and close when the temperature reaches a
predetermined lower temperature. With certain types of fires,       N A.17.17.2.2.2 Some dry pipe systems use lower air pressures in
waterflow might occur in a series of short bursts of a duration        the range of 8 psi to 15 psi (0.5 bar to 1.0 bar), instead of the
of 10 seconds to 30 seconds each. An alarm-initiating device           traditional 40 psi (2.7 bar). A plus or minus value of 10 psi
with retard might not detect waterflow under these conditions.         (0.7 bar) is not appropriate for these systems and could result
An excess pressure system or a system that operates on pressure        in dry pipe valve actuation prior to transmission of a low air
drop should be considered to facilitate waterflow detection on         pressure supervisory signal.

sprinkler systems that use on­off sprinklers.                                   A.18.1 Notification appliances should be sufficient in quantity,

   Excess pressure systems can be used with or without alarm                    audibility, intelligibility, and visibility so as to reliably convey the
valves. The following is a description of one type of excess pres-              intended information to the intended personnel during an
sure system with an alarm valve.                                                emergency.

Y An excess pressure system with an alarm valve consists of an                     Notification appliances in conventional commercial and
L excess pressure pump with pressure switches to control the                    industrial applications should be installed in accordance with
                                                                                the specific requirements of Sections 18.4 and 18.5.
operation of the pump. The inlet of the pump is connected to
                                                                                   The Code recognizes that it is not possible to identify
N the supply side of the alarm valve, and the outlet is connected               specific criteria sufficient to ensure effective occupant notifica-
                                                                                tion in every conceivable application. If the specific criteria of
to the sprinkler system. The pump control pressure switch is of                 Sections 18.4 and 18.5 are determined to be inadequate or
                                                                                inappropriate to provide the performance recommended,
O the differential type, maintaining the sprinkler system pressure              approved alternative approaches or methods are permitted to
                                                                                be used.
above the main pressure by a constant amount. Another switch
                                                                                   Designers and AHJs are advised to consider alternative
E monitors low sprinkler system pressure to initiate a supervisory              means in occupancies that have individuals with cognitive disa-
                                                                                bilities. In addition, persons responsible for evacuation plan-
signal in the event of a failure of the pump or other malfunc-                  ning should consider specific training for individuals with
                                                                                cognitive disabilities to familiarize them with audible and visual
S tion. An additional pressure switch can be used to stop pump                  signals and what responses are necessary based on their capa-
                                                                                bilities and any alternative means used.
operation in the event of a deficiency in water supply. Another                 A.18.1.5 Chapter 18 establishes the means, methods, and
                                                                                performance requirements of notification appliances and
U pressure switch is connected to the alarm outlet of the alarm                 systems. Chapter 18 does not require the installation of notifi-
                                                                                cation appliances or identify where notification signaling is
valve to initiate a waterflow alarm signal when waterflow exists.               required. Authorities having jurisdiction, other codes, other
                                                                                standards, and chapters of this Code require notification signal-
L This type of system also inherently prevents false alarms due to              ing and might specify areas or intended audiences.

water surges. The sprinkler retard chamber should be elimina-                      For example, Chapter 10 requires audible and visible trouble
                                                                                signals at specific locations. A building or fire code might
A ted to enhance the detection capability of the system for short               require audible and visual notification throughout all occupia-
                                                                                ble areas. In contrast, a building or fire code might require
duration flows.                                                                 complete coverage with audible signaling, but might only
                                                                                require specific areas or spaces to have visual signaling. It is
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.17.14 Alarm initiation can be accomplished by devices thatalso possible that a referring code or standard might require
                                                                                compliance with mounting and notification appliance perform-
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} detect the following:                                      ance requirements without requiring complete notification
                                                                                signaling system performance. An example might be where an
ID (1) Flow of water in foam systems                                            appliance is specifically located to provide information or noti-
                                                                                fication to a person at a specific desk within a larger room.
(2) Pump activation

IV (3) Differential pressure

(4) Pressure (e.g., clean agent systems, carbon dioxide
       systems, and wet/dry chemical systems)

D (5) Mechanical operation of a release mechanism
IN A.17.15.8 Protective covers, also called pull station protectors

can be installed over manually actuated alarm initiating devices
to provide mechanical protection, environmental protection,
and to reduce the likelihood of accidental or malicious activa-

R tion. The protective covers must be listed to ensure that they

do not hinder the operation of the pull stations and to ensure

O that they meet accessibility requirements for activation by
Fpersons with physical disabilities. The Code explicitly permits

installing them over single- or double-action devices. When
installed over a double-action device, the assembly effectively
becomes a triple-action device. Some units include battery-
operated audible warning signals that have been shown to
deter malicious activations. To be effective, it is important that              A.18.3.3.2 The intent is to prohibit labeling that could give an
the regular staff or occupants be aware of the sound and inves-                 incorrect message. Wording such as "Emergency" would be
tigate immediately in order to catch someone who might other-                   acceptable for labeling because it is generic enough not to
wise actuate the device without cause or to ensure that the                     cause confusion. Fire alarm systems are often used as emer-
device is actuated if there is a legitimate reason.                             gency notification systems, and therefore attention should be
                                                                                given to this detail.
A.17.15.9.3 In environments where red paint or red plastic is
not suitable, an alternative material, such as stainless steel,                 Combination audible and visual notification appliances are
could be used as long as the box meets the requirements of                      permitted to have multiple visual elements each labeled differ-
17.15.9.2.                                                                      ently or not labeled at all.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                         ANNEX A                                                                                                    72-247

A.18.3.4 Situations exist where supplemental enclosures are                            adjusted to account for attenuation caused by the hearing
necessary to protect the physical integrity of a notification       protection devices.
appliance. Protective enclosures should not interfere with the   N· A.18.4.1.2 The maximum sound pressure level permitted in a
performance characteristics of the appliance. If the enclosure
degrades the performance, methods should be detailed in the         space is 110 dBA. In the 2007 edition, this was reduced from
manufacturer's published instructions of the enclosure that         120 dBA in previous editions. The change from 120 dBA to
clearly identify the degradation. For example, where the appli-     110 dBA was made to coordinate with other laws, codes, and
ance signal is attenuated, it might be necessary to adjust the      standards.

appliance spacings or appliance output.                                                In addition to the danger of exposure to a high sound level,

   A.18.3.6 For hardwired appliances, terminals or leads, as                           long-term exposure to lower levels could also be a problem
   described in 18.3.6, are necessary to ensure that the wire run is                   when, for example, occupants must traverse long egress paths
   broken and that the individual connections are made to the                          to exit or technicians test large systems over extended time
   leads or other terminals for signaling and power.                                   periods.

      A common terminal can be used for connection of incoming                            This Code does not presume to know how long a person will
                                                                                       be exposed to an audible notification system. The limit of
Y and outgoing wires. However, the design and construction of                          110 dBA has been set as a reasonable upper limit for the
                                                                                       performance of a system. For workers who could be exposed to
   the terminal should not permit an uninsulated section of a                          high sound levels over the course of a 40-year employment
                                                                                       history, OSHA (Occupational, Health and Safety Administra-
L single conductor to be looped around the terminal and to                             tion) has established a maximum permitted dose before a hear-
                                                                                       ing conservation program must be implemented. A worker
   serve as two separate connections. For example, a notched                           exposed to 120 dBA for 7.5 minutes a day for 40 years might be
                                                                                       in danger of suffering a hearing impairment. The OSHA regu-
N clamping plate under a single securing screw is acceptable only                      lation includes a formula to calculate a dose for situations
                                                                                       where a person is exposed to different sound levels for differ-
   if separate conductors of a notification circuit are intended to                    ent periods of time. The maximum permitted by the regulation
                                                                                       is an 8-hour equivalent dose of 90 dBA. It is possible to calcu-
O be inserted in each notch. [See Figure A.17.4.5(a).]                                 late the dose a person experiences when traversing an egress
                                                                                       path where the sound pressure level varies as he/she passes
      Another means to monitor the integrity of a connection is to                     close to, then away from, audible appliances. Table A.18.4.1.2
                                                                                       depicts OSHA permissible noise exposures.
E establish communication between the appliance and the                                A.18.4.1.3 In determining maximum ambient sound levels,
                                                                                       sound sources that should be considered include air-handling
   control unit. The integrity of the connection is verified by the                    equipment and background music in a typical office environ-
                                                                                       ment, office cleaning equipment (vacuum cleaner), noisy chil-
S presence of communication. Monitoring integrity in this fash-                        dren in a school auditorium, car engines in an auto shop,
                                                                                       conveyor belts in a warehouse, and a running shower and fan
   ion might not require multiple terminals or leads, as previously                    in a hotel bathroom. Temporary or abnormal sound sources
                                                                                       that can be excluded would include internal or external
U described.                                                                           construction activities (i.e., office rearrangements and
 L It should be noted that monitoring the integrity of the instal-                     construction equipment).

   lation conductors and their connection to an appliance does                         Table A.18.4.1.2 Permissible Noise Exposures

A not guarantee the integrity of the appliance or that it is opera-

   tional. Appliances can be damaged and become inoperable or

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U a circuit can be overloaded, resulting in failure when the appli-

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ances are called upon to work. Presently, only testing can estab-

ID lish the integrity of an appliance.

   A.18.4.1.1 The Code does not require that all audible notifica-

IV tion appliances within a building be of the same type. However,

   a mixture of different types of audible notification appliances
   within a space is not the desired method. Audible notification

D appliances that convey a similar audible signal are preferred.

   For example, a space that uses mechanical horns and bells

IN might not be desirable. A space that is provided with mechani-

   cal horns and electronic horns with similar audible signal
   output is preferred.

 R However, the cost of replacing all existing appliances to

   match new appliances can impose substantial economic impact

Owhere other methods can be used to avoid occupant confusion
Fof signals and signal content. Examples of other methods used
to avoid confusion include, but are not limited to, training of                             Duration (hr)        LA (dBA)
occupants, signage, consistent use of temporal code signal                             8                              90
pattern, and fire drills.                                                              6                          92
                                                                                       4                          95
   Hearing protection can attenuate both the ambient noise                             3                          97
level and the audible signal. Specifications from hearing                              2                         100
protection manufacturers might allow the effect of hearing                             1.5                       102
protection devices to be evaluated. In spaces where hearing                            1                         105
protection is worn due to high ambient noise conditions, visual                        0.5                       110
notification appliances should be considered.

In addition, where hearing protection is worn due to high                              0.25                      115
ambient noise conditions, the audible signal and ambient noise
measurements can be analyzed and the audible signal can be                             0.125 (7.5 minutes)       120

                                                                                       Source: OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.5, Table G-16, Occupational Noise

                                                                                       Exposure.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-248                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.18.4.1.5.1 Audibility of a fire or emergency signal might not    On
be required in all rooms and spaces. For example, a system that
is used for general occupant notification should not require       Off
audibility of the signal in closets and other spaces that are not
considered as occupiable spaces. However, a space of the same           0     2             4       6     8  10 Time (sec)
size used as a file room would be considered occupiable and
should have coverage by notification appliances. Also, signaling   FIGURE A.18.4.2.1(b) Temporal Pattern Imposed on Single-
intended only for staff or emergency forces might only have to     Stroke Bell or Chime.
be effective in very specific locations.

A.18.4.1.5.2 See 3.3.186 for the definition of occupiable.         that will destroy the temporal pattern. Thus, it would not

A.18.4.1.6 Because voice is composed of modulated tones, it is     normally be necessary to provide coordination or synchroniza-
not valid to compare loudness measurements of tone signals
with loudness measurements of voice signals. A voice signal        tion for an entire system. Caution should be used in spaces
that is subjectively judged to be equally as loud as a tone signal such as atriums, where the sounds produced in one notification
                                                                   zone can be sufficient to cause confusion regarding the tempo-
Y will actually produce a dB reading below that of the tone        ral pattern.
                                                                   A.18.4.4 The typical average ambient sound level for the occu-
signal. The modulated tones of a voice signal can have the         pancies specified in Table A.18.4.4 are intended only for design
                                                                   guidance purposes. The typical average ambient sound levels
L same or greater peak amplitude as that of a tone signal.         specified should not be used in lieu of actual sound level meas-
                                                                   urements.
However, because they are modulated meters with fast or slow
                                                                      Sound levels can be significantly reduced due to distance
N time, constants will show a lower dB or dBA reading.             and losses through building elements. Every time the distance
O A voice signal must have sufficient audibility to result in      from the source doubles, the sound level decreases by about
                                                                   6 decibels (dB). Audible notification appliances are typically
intelligible communication. Intelligibility modeling/measure-      rated by manufacturers' and testing agencies at 10 ft (3 m)
ments (subject based and instrument based) include audibility      from the appliance. Subsequently, at a distance of 20 ft (6.1 m)
                                                                   from an audible appliance rated at 84 dBA, the sound level
E as well as many other factors when determining whether a voice   might be reduced to 78 dBA. At a closed door, the loss might
                                                                   be about 10 dB to 24 dB or more depending on construction.
signal is adequate or not adequate.                                If the opening around the door is sealed, this might result in a
                                                                   loss of 22 dB to 34 dB or more.
S A.18.4.2.1 Section 10.10 requires that alarm signals be distinc-
U tive in sound from other signals and that this sound not be

used for any other purpose. The use of the distinctive three-

L pulse temporal pattern signal required by 18.4.2.1 became

effective July 1, 1996, for new systems installed after that date. It

A is not the intent to prohibit continued use of an existing consis-

tent evacuation signaling scheme, subject to approval by the

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U authority having jurisdiction. It is also not the intent that the

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} distinct pattern be applied to visible appliances.

ID Prior to the 2013 edition, the use of the temporal code 3

distinctive evacuation signal was intended only where evacua-

IV tion of the building was the intended response. In order to

eliminate the need for additional signals to mean "relocate,"
the signal is now permitted to be used where relocation or

D partial evacuation is the intended response. The simple result

is people should not be in any area where the signal is sound-

IN ing and that it is safe to be anywhere that signal is not sound-

ing.
   The temporal pattern can be produced by any audible notifi-

R cation appliance, as illustrated in Figure A.18.4.2.1(a) and

Figure A.18.4.2.1(b).

O A.18.4.2.4 Coordination or synchronization of the audible
Fsignal within a notification zone is needed to preserve the
                                                                    Table A.18.4.4 Average Ambient Sound Level According to
                                                                      Location

temporal pattern. It is unlikely that the audible signal in one                           Location           Average Ambient
                                                                   Business occupancies                         Sound Level
                                                                   Educational occupancies                          (dBA)
                                                                   Industrial occupancies                              54
                                                                   Institutional occupancies                           45
                                                                                                                       88
                                                                                                                       50
                                                                   Mercantile occupancies                    40
evacuation/notification zone will be heard in another at a level   Mechanical rooms                          91

                                                                   Piers and water-surrounded structures     40
                                                                   Places of assembly                        60
On

                                                                   Residential occupancies                   35
                                                                   Storage occupancies                       30
                                                                   Thoroughfares, high-density urban         70
Off

                          10 Time                                  Thoroughfares, medium-density urban       55
                    6                                              Thoroughfares, rural and suburban         40
        0     2  4     8

                                                        (sec)      Tower occupancies                         35

FIGURE A.18.4.2.1(a) Temporal Pattern Imposed on                   Underground structures and windowless     40
                                                                   buildings
Signaling Appliances That Emit Continuous Signal While             Vehicles and vessels                      50
Energized.

2019 Edition        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                      ANNEX A                                                          72-249

 A.18.4.4.1 Audio levels are commonly measured using units of                      15 dB above the average ambient sound level or 5 dB above the
decibels, or 110 Bell, abbreviated dB. When measured using a                       maximum sound level having a duration of at least 60 seconds,
sound level meter, the operator can select either an A-weigh-                      whichever is greater.
   ted, B-weighted, or C-weighted measurement. The C-weighted
   measurement is nominally flat from 70 Hz to 4000 Hz, and the                       In very high noise areas, such as theaters, dance halls, night-
   B-weighted measurement is nominally flat from 300 Hz to                         clubs, and machine shops, sound levels during occupied times
   4000 Hz. The A-weighted measurement filters the input signal                    can be 100 dBA and higher. Peak sounds might be 110 dBA or
   to reduce the measurement sensitivity for frequencies to which                  greater. At other occupied times, the sound level might be
   the human ear is less sensitive and is relatively flat from 600 Hz              below 50 dBA. A system designed to have a sound level of at
   to 7000 Hz. This results in a measurement that is weighted to                   least 15 dB above the average ambient sound level or 5 dB
   simulate the segment of the audio spectrum that provides the                    above the maximum sound level having a duration of at least
   most significant intelligibility components heard by the human                  60 seconds might result in a required sound pressure level in
   ear. The units used for measurement are still dB, but the short-                excess of the maximum of 115 dBA. A viable option is to
   hand for specifying use of the A-weighted filter is typically dBA.              reduce or eliminate the background noise. Professional thea-
   The difference between any two sound levels measured on the                     ters or other entertainment venues can have road show connec-
                                                                                   tion control units (see Section 520.50 of NFPA 70) to which
Y same scale is always expressed in units of dB, not dBA.                          troupes can connect their light and sound systems. These
 L The constantly changing nature of pressure waves, which are                     power sources can be controlled by the system. In less formal
                                                                                   applications, such as many nightclubs, designated power
   detected by ear, can be measured by electronic sound meters,                    circuits could be controlled. Diligence needs to be exercised to
                                                                                   ensure that the controlled circuits are used.
N and the resulting electronic waveforms can be processed and
                                                                                      Also, in occupancies such as machine shops or other produc-
   presented in a number of meaningful ways. Most simple sound                     tion facilities, care must be exercised in the design to ensure
                                                                                   that the removal of power to the noise source does not create
O level meters have a fast or slow time constant (125 ms and                       some other hazard. As with other emergency control functions,
                                                                                   control circuits and relays would be monitored for integrity in
   1000 ms, respectively) to quickly average a sound signal and                    accordance with Chapter 10, Chapter 12, and Chapter 23.
   present a root mean square (RMS) level to the meter move-
                                                                                      Appropriate audible signaling in high ambient noise areas is
E ment or display. This is the type of measurement used to deter-                  often difficult. Areas such as automotive assembly areas,
                                                                                   machining areas, paint spray areas, and so on, where the ambi-
   mine the maximum sound level having a duration of at least                      ent noise is caused by the manufacturing process itself, require
                                                                                   special consideration. Adding additional audible notification
S 60 seconds. Note that Chapter 14 requires this measurement to                    appliances that merely contribute to the already noisy environ-
                                                                                   ment might not be appropriate. Other alerting techniques
   be made using the FAST time setting on the meter. However,                      such as visual notification appliances, for example, could be
                                                                                   more effectively used.
U this quick average of impressed sound results in fast move-
                                                                                      Other codes, standards, laws, or regulations, and the author-
   ments of the meter's output that are best seen when talking                     ity having jurisdiction determine where a signal must be audi-
                                                                                   ble. This Code section describes the performance requirement
L into the microphone; the meter quickly rises and falls with                      needed for a signal to be considered reliably audible.
                                                                                   A.18.4.5.1 See A.18.4.4.1 for additional information on sound
   speech. However, when surveying the ambient sound levels to                     measurements and weighting scales.
                                                                                   A.18.4.5.2 For example, in critical care patient areas, it is
A establish the increased level at which a notification appliance                  often desirable to not have an audible notification even at
                                                                                   reduced private mode levels. Each case requires consideration
   will properly function, the sound source needs to be averaged                   by the governing authority. Another example would be high
                                                                                   noise work areas where an audible signal needed to overcome
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U over a longer period of time. See 3.3.30, Average Ambient      background noise at one time of day would be excessively loud
                                                                                   and potentially dangerous at another time of lower ambient
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Sound Level. Moderately priced sound level meters have such anoise. A sudden increase of more than 30 dB over 0.5 seconds
                                                                                   is considered to cause sudden and potentially dangerous fright.
ID function, usually called Leq or equivalent sound level. For exam-

   ple, an Leq of speech in a quiet room would cause the meter

IV movement to rise gradually to a peak reading and slowly fall

   well after the speech is over. Leq measurements are made over a
   specified time period and reported as Leq,t, where t is the time

D period. For example, a measurement taken over 24 hours is

   reported as Leq24.

 IN Leq readings can be misapplied in situations where the back-

   ground ambient noises vary greatly during a 24-hour period.
   Leq measurements should be taken over the period of occu-

R pancy. This is clarified by the definition of average ambient

   sound level (see 3.3.30). Note that average in this context is the

Ointegrated average at a particular measurement location, not

   the average of several readings taken at different locations. For

Fexample, it would be incorrect to take a reading in a quiet
   bathroom and average it with a reading taken near a noisy
   machine to get an average to use for the alarm signal design.
   The alarm would probably be excessively loud in the quiet
bathroom and not loud enough near the noisy machine.                               A.18.4.6.1 See A.18.4.4.1 for additional information on sound
                                                                                   measurements and weighting scales.
In areas where the background noise is generated by machi-
nery and is fairly constant, a frequency analysis can be warran-                   A.18.4.6.3 The intent of this section is to require the use of
ted. It might be found that the high sound levels are                              the low frequency signal in areas intended for sleeping and in
predominantly in one or two frequency bandwidths -- often                          areas that might reasonably be used for sleeping. For example,
lower frequencies. Notification appliances producing sound in                      this section requires a low frequency audible signal in a
one or two other frequency bandwidths can adequately pene-                         bedroom of an apartment and also in the living room area of
trate the background noise and provide notification. The                           an apartment as it might have sleeping occupants. However, it
system would still be designed to produce or have a sound level                    would not be required to use the low frequency signal in the
at the particular frequency or frequency bandwidth of at least                     hallways, lobby, and other tenantless spaces. In hotels, the guest

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-250                                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

rooms would require use of the low frequency signals, but                         dangerous but can be costly and is certainly not needed for
other spaces that might require audible signals could use any              effective system performance.
listed audible appliances regardless of the frequency content of
the signal being produced. This chapter of the Code addresses              A.18.4.7.2 Noise at a lower frequency can mask a signal at an
notification appliances connected to and controlled by a fire              adjacent higher frequency. Thus, it is necessary to calculate the
alarm or emergency communications system. This chapter does                effective masked level of the noise in accordance with estab-
not address dwelling unit protection such as smoke alarms and              lished procedures. Figure A.18.4.7.2 shows an example of an
their audible signal characteristics. Requirements for single-             octave band analysis of noise along with the calculated effective
and multiple-station alarms and household fire alarm systems               masked threshold and the proposed alarm signal.

can be found in Chapter 29.                                                       A.18.4.8.1 The sound content of directional sounders is very

   It is not the intent of this section to preclude devices that                  different from that of the traditional fire alarm audible notifi-
have been demonstrated through peer-reviewed research to                          cation appliances. Traditional fire alarm audible notification
awaken occupants with hearing loss as effectively as those using                  appliances have a strong tonal content, usually centered near
the frequency and amplitude specified in this section.                            the 3 kHz region. Directional sounders use broadband
                                                                                  frequency content, usually covering most of the human audible
Y Non-voice (e.g., horns) notification appliances should be                       frequency range, 20 Hz to 20 kHz. Figure A.18.4.8.1(a)
                                                                                  compares the frequency content of a traditional fire alarm
listed as a "low frequency alarm" alarm appliance. Voice appli-                   audible notification appliance to a directional sounder. This
                                                                                  figure shows that while the fire alarm audible notification appli-
L ances and systems should be capable of 520 Hz ±10 percent                       ance clearly dominates the 3 kHz and upper harmonics, the
                                                                                  broadband content of the directional sounder is 20 dB to
with the appropriate harmonics.                                                   30 dB in other frequency bands or ranges. The fire alarm has
                                                                                  an overall A-weighted sound level greater than the directional
N For increased protection in the sleeping area, tactile notifica-                sounder and will be perceived as being louder. However, since
O tion in accordance with Section 18.10 might be an effective                     the directional sounder has a wide spectral range, the signal
                                                                                  penetrates the fire alarm signal in several other frequency
means of awakening those who have normal hearing, as well as                      bands as permitted by 18.4.7.
those who are hearing impaired.
                                                                                     There are three main types of information that allow the
E A.18.4.6.3(2) For the purposes of awakening, the low                            brain to identify the location of a sound. The first two are
S frequency signal can be produced by a listed stand-alone appli-                 known as binaural cues because they make use of the fact that
                                                                                  we have two ears, separated by the width of our head. A sound
ance or by a listed system consisting of a recorded waveform                      that emanates from either side of the mid-line will arrive first at
                                                                                  the ear closer to it and will be loudest at the ear closer to it. At
U delivered through an amplifier and loudspeaker.                                 low frequencies the brain recognizes differences in the arrival
                                                                                  time of sound between the ears (interaural time differences).
A.18.4.7 This subsection permits a more rigorous analysis and                     At higher frequencies the salient signal is the loudness/inten-
                                                                                  sity difference between the sounds at each ear (interaural
L design for audible signaling. Acoustic design practice and
Sound pressure level (dB)  45
psychoacoustic research have long recognized that for a signal

A to be audible, it need only penetrate the background noise in a

one-third or a one octave band. The averaging resulting from

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A-weighted analysis and design is a simplification that often

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} results in systems being overdesigned. This overdesign is not

IVID 75
D 70
IN 65

     60

R 55
FO 50

                           40

                           35                   100  Frequency (Hz)  1000                               10,000
                              10

                                  LN, Oct

                                  LT, Oct

                                  Alarm Signal

At the first octave band center frequency, the masked threshold of hearing, LT, Oct is equal to the
noise level. For each subsequent center frequency, LT, Oct is the greater of either the noise level at
that octave band, LN, Oct, or the masked threshold of the previous band less 7.5 dB.

FIGURE A.18.4.7.2 Threshold Masking Level Example.

2019 Edition                                    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                  ANNEX A                                                                    72-251

intensity differences). Refer to Figure A.18.4.8.1(b). For single          Shadowed ear
frequencies, these cues are spatially ambiguous.

    The inherent ambiguity has been described as the "cone of                                                                          Shadowed

confusion." This arises from the fact that for any given
frequency there are numerous spatial positions that generate
                                                                                              A

identical timing/intensity differences. These can be graphically                                                                       Time

represented in the form of a cone, the apex of which is at the
level of the external ear. The cone of confusion is the main
reason for our not being able to localize pure tones.
                                                                           Directly                                                    Time

   The final piece of sound localization information processed             irradiated ear  B                     ITD                   Closer
by the brain is the head-related transfer function (HRTF). The
  HRTF refers to the effect the external ear has on sound. As a
  result of passing over the bumps or convolutions of the pinna,                               Interaural Time Differences
  the sound is modified so that some frequencies are attenuated            Sources off to one side (B) arrive sooner at the closer ear.

Y and others are amplified. Refer to Figure A.18.4.8.1(c).                                                       Shadowed ear
                                                                                                                                  IID
  Although there are certain generalities in the way the pinnae
                                                                           Closer ear
L modify sound, the HRTF is unique to each individual. The role

  of the HRTF is particularly important when determining

N whether a sound is in front of or behind us. In this instance the

  timing and intensity differences are negligible, and there is

O consequently very little information available to the central

  nervous system on which to base this decision. To locate the

E direction of a sound source, the larger the frequency content

  to overcome the ambiguities inherent to single tones, the

S better the accuracy.

  A.18.4.8.2 ITD: A difference in arrival times of waveform

U features (such as peaks and positive-going zero crossings) at the

  two ears is known as the interaural time difference, or ITD.

L The binaural physiology is capable of using phase information

  from ITD cues only at low frequencies below about 1500 Hz.

A However, the binaural system can successfully register an ITD

  that occurs at a high frequency such as 4000 Hz if the signal is

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U modulated. The modulation, in turn, must have a rate that is

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} less than about 1000 Hz.

 ID ILD: Comparison between intensities in the left and right

  ears is known as the interaural level difference, or ILD. ILD

IV cues exist physically only for frequencies above about 500 Hz.

  They become large and reliable for frequencies above 3000 Hz,

D making ILD cues most effective at high frequencies.
     ATF: The anatomical transfer function (ATF), also known as

IN the head-related transfer function (HRTF), is used by listeners
R 110                                                                                                 Interaural Intensity Differences
           Directional sound = 66 dB(A)*; Fire alarm = 86 dB(A)*                      Sources off to one side (B) are louder at the closer ear
    O90
100F70                                                                                                     due to head shadowing.

           3 kHz fire alarm                                                FIGURE A.18.4.8.1(b) Interaural Time and Intensity
                                                                           Differences of Sound.
    80
                                                                           to resolve front­back confusion and to determine elevation.
                             Directional sounder                           Waves that come from behind tend to be boosted in the
                                                                           1000 Hz frequency region, whereas waves that come from the
dB  60                                                                     forward direction are boosted near 3000 Hz. The most
                                                                           dramatic effects occur above 4000 Hz.

                                                                              These localization cues can be implemented simultaneously
                                                                           when the source signal is a broadband sound containing a
                                                                           range of low to high frequencies. For example, octave bands of
                                                                           1 kHz (707­1414 Hz) for ITD, 4 kHz (2828­5856 Hz) for ILD,
                                                                           and 8 kHz (5657­11,314 Hz) for ATF would fall within the
                                                                           effective frequency ranges required in 18.4.7.

                                                                              Additional information on sound localization and auditory
                                                                           localization cues is contained in the following article: http://
                                                                           www.aip.org/pt/nov99/locsound.html, I.1.2.16.1.

                                                                              The ability to pinpoint the location of a sound source is
                                                                           based on the physics of sound and the physiology of the human
                                                                           hearing mechanism. The brain processes a large amount of
                                                                           neural signals, some of which provide cues to the sound sour-
                                                                           ce's location. People are able to hear sound ranging from
                                                                           about 20 Hz to 20,000 Hz. Unfortunately, pure tones in this
    50                                                                     frequency range provide only limited localization information.

    40                                                                     The primary localization cues are provided by interaural time

    30

    20                                                                     differences (ITDs) (lower frequencies), interaural intensity

    10                                                                     differences (IIDs) (mid to higher frequencies), and the head-

    0                                                                      related transfer function (HRTF) (higher frequencies). In

        0  5,000  10,000          15,000               20,000              enclosed spaces that can be somewhat reverberant, the prece-

                  Frequency (Hz)                                           dence effect (PE) also provides directional information.

* Measured at 10 ft in an anechoic room.                                      The interaural time difference (ITD) and interaural inten-
                                                                           sity difference (IID) are termed binaural cues because they
FIGURE A.18.4.8.1(a) Comparison of Frequency Content of                    depend on both ears separated by the width of the head. At
a Traditional Fire Alarm Audible Notification Appliance to a               lower frequencies (longer wavelength), the time delay between
Directional Sounder.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-252                                                                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Amplitude (dB)                                                                0                       Amplitude (dB)     0
                                                           Amplitude (dB)              Above                                      Original signal

                                                                           ­10                                        ­10

                                                                           ­20                                        ­20

                                                                           ­30       6 8 10 12 15 18                  ­30       6 8 10 12 15 18
                                                                                  4  Frequency (kHz)                         4  Frequency (kHz)

Y ­20                                                                                                                    0
   0                                                                                                  Amplitude (dB)             Front
            Behind                                                                                                    ­10
                                                                                                                                6 8 10 12 15 18
­10                                                                                                                   ­20       Frequency (kHz)
L ­30                                                                                                                 ­30
       4
ON FIGURE A.18.4.8.1(c) Examples of Frequency-Dependent Attenuation for Sources in Front,6 8 10 12 15 18                     4
E Above, and Behind Listener.Frequency (kHz)

S arriving sound signals is detectable. ITD is most evident in                                                        sounder that utilizes a tonal sound different from the example
U frequencies below about 500 Hz with clicks or short bursts of                                                       above. As with the directional sound example presented above,
                                                                                                                      the development of this alternative signal is similarly rooted in
sound. At higher frequencies (shorter wavelength), the loud-                                                          the vast research data that exists for sound localization and
ness/intensity differences between the ears is more noticeable                                                        directional auditory cues.

L because of partial shielding of the more distant ear by the                                                            An example of an alternative directional sound signal can be
                                                                                                                      a sequence of two harmonic two-tone complexes. This
head. IID is most evident for frequencies above 3000 Hz.                                                              sequence starts with a complex of low fundamental frequencies
                                                                                                                      of 262 and 330 Hz having duration of 200 ms. This sound is
A The head-related transfer function (HRTF) relies on the                                                             then followed by a 200-ms silence. Next the sequence continues
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U effect of the external ear on perceived sound. The HRTF                                           with a second sound that is a complex of low fundamental
                                                                                                                      frequencies of 330 and 392 Hz having a duration of 200 ms.
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} describes the transforming effect of the head, torso, and exter-                                 After another 200-ms silence, this whole pattern is repeated.

ID nal ear on sound as it travels from the sound source to the ear                                                       Localizability was ensured by the dense harmonic structure
                                                                                                                      of the signal, with closely spaced harmonics up to 20 kHz. In
canals. The HRTF changes depending on sound source loca-                                                              addition sharp signal onsets were included to aid the detection
tion, providing an additional localization cue. HRTF operates                                                         of interaural time differences, thus increasing localizability.
                                                                                                                      A.18.4.8.5 Where directional sounders are used, they should
IV over a range of frequencies but seems to be most effective in                                                      not be located on only a single exit. They should be located at
                                                                                                                      all of the identified exits in the building. This is to ensure that
the 5000 Hz to 10,000 Hz range. Combined with the listener's                                                          in an evacuation or relocation the occupants utilize all of the
                                                                                                                      exits and areas of refuge, not just those that have directional
D head motion, HRTF provides an independent localization                                                              sounders located near them. Some examples of exits would
                                                                                                                      include the following:
method to complement ITD and IID capabilities.

IN The precedence effect (PE) is important for discriminating

between the direct sound signal and reflected sound, a
common situation within buildings. The ear is capable of

R discerning and fixating on the first sound received (line-of-

sight direct signal) and disregarding later signals (reflected

O sound). The acoustical signal arriving first at the ears

suppresses the ability to hear other signals (including reverber-

Fation) that arrive up to about 40 milliseconds after the initial

signal.
                                                                                                                      (1) Code-complying exterior doors and exit discharge
   All of the preceding cues are utilized simultaneously when                                                         (2) Code-complying exit passageway
the source signal is broadband sound containing a range of low                                                        (3) Code-complying interior stairs, including smokeproof
and high frequencies, and when the sound arrives in bursts
rather than as steady state sound. The combination of different                                                              enclosures
cues provides reinforcement and redundancy of information to                                                          (4) Code-complying outside stairs
enhance the ability to locate the sound source. Broadband                                                             (5) Code-complying ramps
sound tends to eliminate potential ambiguities that occur for                                                         (6) Code-complying fire escapes
pure tone or narrowband sound sources.                                                                                (7) Code-complying horizontal exits

Other types of sound patterns can be used as directional                                                              A.18.4.11 See Annex D, Speech Intelligibility.

sounders that can be used for audible exit marking. Some                                                              A.18.4.11.1 See the definition of acoustically distinguishable
scientific research has been performed to develop a directional                                                       space in 3.3.6.

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                ANNEX A                                                                              72-253

A.18.4.11.3 For example, based on the system design the                 that the operating effect of the appliance is seen by the inten-
following locations might not require intelligibility. See also         ded viewers regardless of the viewer's orientation.
Annex D.
                                                                        A.18.5.1.2 Visual notification appliances for fire or emergency
(1) Private bathrooms, shower rooms, saunas, and similar                signaling might not be required in all rooms or spaces. For
rooms/areas
(2) Mechanical, electrical, elevator equipment rooms, and               example, a system that is used for general occupant notification
                                                                        should not require visual signaling in closets and other spaces
similar rooms/areas                                                     that are not considered as occupiable areas. However, a space
(3) Elevator cars
(4) Individual offices                                                  of the same size used as a file room could be considered occu-
                                                                        piable and should have coverage by notification appliances.
(5) Kitchens                                                            Also, signaling intended only for staff or emergency forces
(6) Storage rooms
(7) Closets                                                             might only have to be effective in very specific locations.

                                                                        A.18.5.2.2 Occupant notification by visual signaling is not
   (8) Rooms/areas where intelligibility cannot reasonably be           required by NFPA 72 except in high noise areas (see 18.4.1.1).
          predicted                                                     Just as with audible occupant notification, the requirement to
                                                                        have such signaling originates from other governing laws,
Y A.18.4.11.4 ADS assignments should be a part of the original          codes, or standards. Those other governing laws, codes, or
                                                                        standards specify the areas or spaces that require either audi-
   design process. See the discussion in A.3.3.6. The design draw-      ble, visual, or both types of occupant notification. NFPA 72
                                                                        then provides the standards for those systems.
L ings should be used to plan and show the limits of each ADS        ·
                                                                     N  A.18.5.3.3  Research indicates that equivalent indirect alerting
   where there is more than one.                                        is obtained between 0.1 milliseconds to 20 milliseconds. Testing
                                                                        above 20 milliseconds indicates that the effective candela must
 N All areas that are intended to have audible occupant notifi-         be increased to obtain equivalent alerting capability to that of
O cation, whether by tone only or by voice should be designated         shorter light pulse durations of 20 milliseconds or less. The
                                                                        effective candela rating should be increased by the value in
   as one or more ADSs. Drawings or a table listing all ADSs            Table A.18.5.3.3 to achieve equivalent alerting capability.
   should be used to indicate which ADSs will require intelligible

E voice communications and those that will not. The same draw-

   ings or table could be used to list audibility requirements

S where tones are used and to list any forms of visual or other

   notification or communications methods being employed in

U the ADS.
L A.18.5 The mounting height of the appliances affects the

   distribution pattern and level of illumination produced by an

A appliance on adjacent surfaces. It is this pattern, or effect, that

   provides occupant notification by visual appliances. If mounted

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U too high, the pattern is larger but at a lower level of illumina-

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tion (measured in lumens per square foot or foot-candles). If

ID mounted too low, the illumination is greater (brighter) but the

   pattern is smaller and might not overlap correctly with that of
   adjacent appliances.

 IV A qualified designer could choose to present calculations to

   an authority having jurisdiction showing that it is possible to

D use a mounting height greater than 96 in. (2.44 m) or less than

   80 in. (2.03 m), provided that an equivalent level of illumina-

IN tion is achieved on the adjacent surfaces. This can be accom-

   plished by using listed higher intensity appliances or closer
   spacing, or both.

 R Engineering calculations should be prepared by qualified

   persons and should be submitted to the authority having juris-

Odiction, showing how the proposed variation achieves the same
For greater level of illumination provided by the prescriptive
                                                                        A.18.5.3.5 Effective intensity is the conventional method of
                                                                        equating the brightness of a flashing light to that of a steady-
                                                                        burning light as seen by a human observer. The units of effec-
                                                                        tive intensity are expressed in candelas (or candlepower, which
                                                                        is equivalent to candelas). For example, a flashing light that has
                                                                        an effective intensity of 15 cd has the same apparent brightness
                                                                        to an observer as a 15 cd steady-burning light source.

                                                                           Measurement of effective intensity is usually done in a labo-
                                                                        ratory using specialized photometric equipment. Accurate field
                                                                        measurement of effective intensity is not practical. Other units
                                                                        of measure for the intensity of flashing lights, such as peak

                                                                        Table A.18.5.3.3 Visual Notification Appliance Rating
                                                                        Multipliers for Equivalent Alerting Capability

                                                                        Rated Light Pulse Duration               Rating Multiplier
                                                                                (milliseconds)                           1.00
                                                                                        20                               1.22
                                                                                        25                               1.43
                                                                                        30
                                                                                    35                                  1.64
requirements of Section 18.5.                                                       40                                  1.83
                                                                                    45                                  2.02
   The calculations require knowledge of calculation methods                        50                                  2.20
for high-intensity visual notification appliances. In addition, the                 55                                  2.37
calculations require knowledge of the test standards used to                        60                                  2.54
evaluate and list the appliance.

A.18.5.1 There are two methods of visual signaling. These are                       65                                  2.70
methods in which notification of an emergency condition is
conveyed by direct viewing of the illuminating appliance or by                      70                                  2.85
                                                                                    75                                  3.00
means of illumination of the surrounding area.                                      80                                  3.14

   Visual notification appliances used in the public mode must                      85                                  3.28
be located and must be of a type, size, intensity, and number so                    90                                  3.41
                                                                                    95                                  3.54
                                                                                    100                                 3.67

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-254                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

candela or flash energy, do not correlate directly to effective                     However, the research was limited to typical residential and
intensity and are not used in this Code.                                            commercial applications such as school classrooms, offices,
                                                                                    hallways, and hotel rooms. While these specific appliances and
   Visual notification appliances might be used to signal fire or                   applications will likely work in other spaces, their use might not
other emergencies and might be intended to initiate evacua-                         be the most effective solution and might not be as reliable as
tion, relocation, or some other behavior. Lights intended to                        other visual notification methods.
initiate evacuation due to fire are required by the Code to be
clear or white. Colored lights, such as amber/yellow lights,                        For example, in large warehouse spaces and large distribu-
might be used in a combination system for any emergency                             tion spaces such as super stores, it is possible to provide visual
(fire, bomb, chemical, weather, etc.) when the intent is for the                    signaling using the appliances and applications of this chapter.
signal recipient to seek additional information from other sour-                    However, mounting visual notification appliances at a height of
ces (voice, text displays, and so on).                                              80 in. to 96 in. (2.03 m to 2.44 m) along aisles with rack storage
                                                                                    subjects the visual notification appliances to frequent mechani-
   Example Scenario 1: A building has a fire alarm system used                      cal damage by forklift trucks and stock. Also, the number of
for general evacuation. A separate mass notification system is                      appliances required would be very high. It might be possible to
used to provide voice instructions and information in the event                     use other appliances and applications not specifically
                                                                                    addressed by this chapter at this time. Alternative applications
Y of non-fire emergencies. The fire alarm system would have                         must be carefully engineered for reliability and function and
                                                                                    would require permission of the authority having jurisdiction.
white/clear visual notification appliances intended to alert
                                                                                       Tests of a system in large warehouse/super stores designed
L occupants of the need to evacuate. The mass notification                          using the prescriptive approach of 18.5.5.5 showed that high
                                                                                    ambient light levels resulted in both indirect and direct signal-
system would have amber/yellow visual notification appliances                       ing effects. The signal-to-noise ratio produced by the operating
                                                                                    visual notification appliances was low in many locations.
N that are intended to signal the need to get additional informa-                   However, with visual notification appliances located over the
                                                                                    aisles or unobstructed by stock, indirect and some direct notifi-
tion from either audible voice announcements, text or graphi-                       cation was sometimes achieved. Direct notification occurs even
                                                                                    when occupants do not look up toward the ceiling-mounted
O cal displays, or other information sources controlled or                          visual notification appliances due to the extended cone of
                                                                                    vision shown in Figure A.18.5.4(a). The visual notification
operated from the mass notification system. In the event that                       appliance intensity and spacing resulting from the prescriptive
                                                                                    design was generally sufficient for occupant notification by a
E both systems are activated at the same time, the visual notifica-                 combination of direct and indirect signaling. Testing showed
                                                                                    that the best performance was achieved where visual notifica-
tion appliances should be synchronized per 18.5.5.5.2.                              tion appliances were directly over aisles or where visual notifica-
                                                                                    tion appliances in adjacent aisles were not obstructed by stock.
S Example Scenario 2: A building has a mass notification                            The performance-based design method will almost always
                                                                                    result in aisles not having a line of visual notification appliances
system that provides information and instructions for a variety                     in them, because the spacing of visual notification appliances
                                                                                    can be greater than the spacing of aisles. Also, it is recognized
U of emergency situations, including fire. Fire alarm initiation                    that aisles might be relocated after installation of the system.
                                                                                    Good design practice is to place visual notification appliances
might be by a stand-alone fire detection system or might be an                      over aisles, especially those that are likely to remain unchanged
                                                                                    such as main aisles, and over checkout areas. Where reorgani-
L integral part of the mass notification system. In the event of an                 zation of aisles results in visual notification appliances not in or
                                                                                    over an aisle, or where that is the base design, it is important to
emergency, textual audible appliances are used to provide                           have a clear view from that aisle to a nearby visual notification
                                                                                    appliance. See Figure A.18.5.4(b). Some spaces might have
A information. Visual signaling could be accomplished using one                     marginal visual notification appliance effect (direct or indi-
                                                                                    rect). However, occupants in these large stores and storage
set of clear or colored visual notification appliances to indicate                  occupancies move frequently and place themselves in a posi-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the need to get additional information. Visual textual informa-

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tion can be provided by text or graphic display or other visual

ID information appliances. The content of the audible and visual

messages will vary depending on the emergency.

IV A.18.5.3.7 It is not the intent to establish viewing and synchro-

nization requirements for viewing locations outdoors. As an

D example, there is no need for Floor No. 1 to be synchronized

with Floor No. 2 if there is no visual coupling as in an atrium.

IN Studies have shown that the effect of visual notification

appliances on photosensitive epilepsy lessens with distance and
viewing angle.

R As long as the composite flash rate is no greater than that

produced by two listed visual notification appliances as allowed

O by 18.5.5.5.2, compliance is achieved.
FExample: A ballroom has multiple synchronized visual notifi-
cation appliances operating during an emergency, the doors                          tion where they receive notification via the visual notification
exiting the ballroom are opened, and the visual notification                        appliances. In addition, complete synchronization of the visual
appliances outside in the lobby and corridor are also operating.                    notification appliances in the space produced a desirable
The visual notification appliances in the corridor and lobby are                    effect.
synchronized with each other, but the visual notification appli-
ances outside the ballroom are not synchronized with the visual         Visual notification using the methods contained in 18.5.5.5
notification appliances inside the ballroom. This would be an        is achieved by indirect signaling. This means the viewer need
acceptable application because the composite flash rate does         not actually see the appliance, just the effect of the appliance.
not exceed that allowed by 18.5.5.5.2.                               This can be achieved by producing minimum illumination on
                                                                     surfaces near the appliance, such as the floor, walls, and desks.
A.18.5.4 The prescriptive requirements of Section 18.5 assume                       There must be a sufficient change in illumination to be notice-
the use of appliances having very specific characteristics of light                 able. The tables and charts in Section 18.5 specify a certain
color, intensity, distribution, and so on. The appliance and         candela-effective light intensity for certain size spaces. The data
application requirements are based on extensive research.                           were based on extensive research and testing. Appliances do

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    ANNEX A                                                      72-255

not typically produce the same light intensity when measured        permitted [80 in. to 96 in. (2.03 m to 2.44 m)] ensures that
off-axis. To ensure that the appliance produces the desired illu-   visual notification appliances are not mounted too high, which
mination (effect), it must have some distribution of light inten-   would result in lower levels of illumination on surrounding
sity to the areas surrounding the appliance. ANSI/UL 1971,          walls and on the floor. The lower limit of the range ensures
Standard for Signaling Devices for the Hearing Impaired, specifies  that a minimum percentage of the surrounding surfaces is illu-
the distribution of light shown to provide effective notification   minated and that the top of the illuminated pattern is at or
by indirect visual signaling.                                       above the plane of normal human viewing [approximately 5 ft
                                                                    (1.5 m)]. Wall mounting of visual notification appliances,
                                                                    which are listed only for wall mounting, can result in little or
                                                                    no illumination above the plane of the visual notification appli-
                                                                    ance. In the case of lower ceiling heights and mounting close
                                                                    to the ceiling, the level of illumination on the floor and
                                                                    surrounding walls is not reduced but the walls have a near
                                                                    100 percent illuminated or "painted" area because the visual
                                                                    notification appliance is close to the ceiling. That is, there is
                                                                    little or no wall surface above the plane of the visual notifica-
                                                                    tion appliance that is not illuminated when the visual notifica-
                                                                    tion appliance is mounted close to the ceiling. Thus, when a
                                                                    visual notification appliance is mounted lower than the mini-
                                                                    mum [80 in. (2.03 m)] but still close to the ceiling, the only
                                                                    loss of signal is the smaller pattern produced on the horizontal
                                                                    plane (floor).

                                                                       In the case where the only change is a lower mounting
                                                                    height due to a lower ceiling height, the room size covered by a
                                                                    visual notification appliance of a given value should be reduced
                                                                    by twice the difference between the minimum mounting height
                                                                    of 80 in. (2.03 m) and the actual, lower mounting height. For
                                                                    example, if a 15 cd effective visual notification appliance that
                                                                    normally covers a 20 ft (6.1 m) square space is being used and
                                                                    the height of the space is 63 in. (1.6 m) and the visual notifica-
                                                                    tion appliance is mounted at 59 in. (1.5 m), the visual notifica-
A.18.5.5.1 The requirements for the location of appliances
within a building or structure are intended to apply to visual
notification appliances applied in accordance with 18.5.5.5,
18.5.5.6, and 18.5.5.8. The mounting and location of applian-
ces installed using the performance-based alternative of
18.5.5.7 can be located differently, provided they meet the
intended performance requirements. Other appliances, such
as graphic displays, video screens, and so on, should be located

Y so that they meet their intended performance.
L Where low ceiling heights or other conditions do not permit

mounting at a minimum of 80 in. (2.03 m), visual notification

N appliances can be mounted at a lower height. However, lower-

ing the mounting height reduces the area of coverage for that

O visual notification appliance. The performance-based methods

of 18.5.5.7 can be used to determine the area of coverage.

E Visual notification appliance mounting height should not be

lowered below the plane of normal human viewing [approxi-

S mately 5 ft (1.5 m)] except where ceiling heights limit the

mounting position.

U The mounting height requirement of 80 in. to 96 in. (2.03 m

to 2.44 m) does not address the possibility of conditions where

L ceiling heights are less than 80 in. (2.03 m). The range that is
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} Peripheral
                    vision
     IV Acute, focused viewing angle --15 degrees
IND FIGURE A.18.5.4(a) Extended Cone of Vision. (Courtesy of R. P. Schifiliti Associates, Inc.)
                                                                      Prescriptive or performance-based strobe spacing
FOR Coverage depends on spacing, rack/shelf sizes,
                                                    and relative heights of strobes and stock.

                                           Direct                                                Indirect
                                         signaling                                              signaling

                               Shelving
                               or racks

FIGURE A.18.5.4(b) Visual Notification Appliances in Stores. (Courtesy of R. P. Schifiliti Associates, Inc.)     2019 Edition
Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-256        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

tion appliance can only cover a 16.5 ft (5.0 m) square space:      10 ft (3.1 m)
20 ft -2 (80 in. - 59 in.) (1 ft/12 in.) = 16.5 ft (5.0 m).

   The room size reduction assumes that the horizontal pattern
on each side of the visual notification appliance is reduced by
the same amount that the visual notification appliance height is
reduced.

A.18.5.5.4 Visual notification appliances must be listed for       40 ft (12.2 m)                  Correct

either wall mounting or ceiling mounting. The effectiveness of
ceiling-mounted appliances does not depend on them being
mounted on a surface. Therefore, the Code permits them to be
suspended below the ceiling using proper electrical installation
   methods. Appliances mounted parallel to the floor, whether on
   a ceiling or suspended, can sometimes significantly reduce             22 ft (6.7 m)
   installation costs and provide better coverage.                 10 ft (3.1 m)

 Y In convention spaces and areas with racking and shelving,       40 ft (12.2 m)                           Incorrect
L wall-mounted appliances are frequently obstructed or subjected                                   30 ft (9.1 m)

   to mechanical damage. Ceiling mounting (or suspending) the

N appliances can prevent problems and increases the ability for

   the appliance to cover the floor area through direct and indi-

O rect signaling. See A.18.5.4.

   A.18.5.5.5 The visual notification appliance intensities listed

E in Table 18.5.5.5.1(a) or Table 18.5.5.5.1(b), 18.5.5.6, or Table

   18.5.5.8.3 or determined in accordance with the performance

S requirements of 18.5.5.7 are the minimum required intensities.

   It is acceptable to use a higher intensity visual notification

U appliance in lieu of the minimum required intensity.
      Areas large enough to exceed the rectangular dimensions

L given in Figure A.18.5.5.5(a) through Figure A.18.5.5.5(c)

   require additional appliances. Often, proper placement of

A appliances can be facilitated by breaking down the area into

   multiple squares and dimensions that fit most appropriately [see

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Figure A.18.5.5.5(a) through Figure A.18.5.5.5(d)]. An area that is

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 40 ft (12.2 m) wide and 80 ft (24.4 m) long can be covered with

ID two 60 cd appliances. Irregular areas and areas with dividers or

   partitions need more careful planning to make certain that at

IV least one 15 cd appliance is installed for each 20 ft × 20 ft

   (6.1 m × 6.1 m) area and that light from the appliance is not
   blocked.

D N A.18.5.5.5.1 In rooms with an average ambient level greater
IN than 500 lx, visual notification appliance spacing should be

   reduced by 30 percent (i.e., listed spacing × 0.7) or the
   required effective candela should be increased by 100 percent
   (i.e., effective candela × 2.0).

 R Ambient light levels have an effect on the proper candela
O ratings in indirect viewing of visual notification appliances. The

   amount of ambient light is normally from two sources: artificial

Flighting and natural light from outside.
                                                                                            22 ft (6.7 m)
                                                                                               30 ft (9.1 m)

                                                                   Note: Broken lines represent imaginary walls.

                                                                   FIGURE A.18.5.5.5(a) Irregular Area Spacing.

                                                                   should measure light level from 0 to 10,000 lx with a precision
                                                                   accuracy of ±5 percent.

                                                                      For design purposes, typical ambient illumination for various
                                                                   locations and activities are shown in Table A.18.5.5.5.1 and can
                                                                   be used as a guide for the selection of appropriate visual signal
                                                                   intensity.
                                                                   A.18.5.5.5.2(2) The field of view is based on the focusing capa-
                                                                   bility of the human eye specified as 120 degrees in the Illumi-
                                                                   nating Engineering Society (IES) Lighting Handbook Reference and
                                                                   Application. The apex of this angle is the viewer's eye. In order
                                                                   to ensure compliance with the requirements of 18.5.5.5.2, this
                                                                   angle should be increased to approximately 135 degrees.

                                                                      Testing has shown that high flash rates of high-intensity
                                                                   visual notification appliances can pose a potential risk of seiz-
   In rooms or areas requiring artificial illumination, the ambi-  ure to people with photosensitive epilepsy. To reduce this risk,
ent lux value for selecting candela values should be based on      more than two visual notification appliances are not permitted
the maximum light intensity that the artificial light sources      in any field of view unless their flashes are synchronized. This
provide.                                                           does not preclude synchronization of appliances that are not

In rooms or areas that have natural outside light, the ambi-       within the same field of view.
ent lux value should be that of the maximum light level with
the shades or curtains fully open during daylight hours and        A.18.5.5.5.6 This subsection is also intended to permit ceiling-
with the artificial lighting illuminated.                          mounted visual notification appliances to be suspended below
                                                                   the ceiling, provided the visual notification appliance height is
Ambient light can be measured using a calibrated light             not below the viewing plane for any ceiling height.
meter in the approximate center of the room, 4 ft (1.2 m)
above the floor, with the sensor facing upward. The light meter

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       ANNEX A                                                                                                                  72-257

40 ft (12.2 m)                                                         Visual notification appliance
                                                                            improperly located

                                                                                     30 cd
                                                                       Visual notification appliance
                60 cd                                                                                                         Visual notification appliance

                                                                       30 cd         30 cd                                                                    30 ft
                                                                                                                                                             (9.1 m)

                                                                                                                                                                         50 ft
                                                                                                                                                                      (15.2 m)

40 ft (12.2 m)                         NLY 15 cd                              30 cd

                60 cd                                                                 Visual notification appliance
                                                                                                 30 ft (9.1 m)
                                                15 cd    20 ft                                 50 ft (15.2 m)
                                                       (6.1 m)
                                                                        FIGURE A.18.5.5.5(d) Room Spacing Allocation --
                                                                          Incorrect.
                       O 40 ft (12.2 m)
                       E 80 ft (24.4 m)  20 ft
                                       (6.1 m)

S Note: Broken lines represent imaginary walls.
                       74 ft (22.6 m)                                  Table A.18.5.5.5.1 Typical Ambient Illumination for Various
                                                                       Locations
U FIGURE A.18.5.5.5(b) Spacing of Wall-Mounted Visual
                                                                                                                                                                      Illumination
Notification Appliances in Rooms.                                                                                                                                          (lx)
{C56A4DC7-64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-41DE5BD47BC8} Visual                          Locations
       notification
       appliance                                                       Unoccupied rooms                                                                               100­150
       (typical)                                                         (only emergency lighting active)                                                                150
 D properly                                                                                                                                                              250
       located                                                         Warehouses, homes, theaters, archives                                                             500
     IN30 cd                                                           Classrooms                                                                                        750
                  50 ft (15.2 m)                                       Normal offices, study library, show rooms,                                                       1000

                                                                         laboratories
                                                                       Supermarkets, mechanical workshops
                                                                       Detailed work spaces, operating rooms

                                       Coverage                        Note: Table derived from "Recommended Light Levels," published by
                                       of strobe in                    National Optical Astronomy Observatory.
                                       LRH corner

OR A.18.5.5.6 Because the occupants are usually alert and              A.18.5.5.6.5 Visual notification appliances in corridors are
                                                                       permitted to be mounted on walls or on ceilings in accordance
   moving, and because their vision is focused by the narrowness       with 18.5.5.6. Where there are more than two appliances in a
                                                                       field of view, they need to be synchronized.
Fof the space, corridor signaling is permitted to be by direct
   viewing of lower-intensity (15 cd) appliances. That is, the alert-     Note that it is acceptable to use 18.5.5.5 (Spacing in Rooms)
   ing is intended to be done by direct viewing of the visual notifi-  to determine the number and location of visual notification
 FIGURE A.18.5.5.5(c) Room Spacing Allocation -- Correct.              appliances in corridors. If 18.5.5.5 is used, it is not necessary to
                                                                       have a corridor visual notification appliance within 15 ft
                                                                       (4.5 m) of the end of the corridor. It is not the intent of this
                                                                       section to require visual notification appliances at or near every
                                                                       exit or exit access from a corridor.

cation appliance, not necessarily by its reflection off of surfaces  A.18.5.5.7 A design that delivers a minimum illumination of
(indirect viewing) as required for rooms in 18.5.5.5.                  0.0375 lumens/ft2 (footcandles) [0.4036 lumens/m2 (lux)] to
                                                                       all occupiable spaces where visual notification is required is
   Note that it is acceptable to use 18.5.5.5 (Spacing in Rooms)       considered to meet the minimum light intensity requirements
to determine the number and location of visual notification            of 18.5.5.5.2(1). This level of illumination has been shown to
appliances in corridors. If 18.5.5.5 is used, it is not necessary to   alert people by indirect viewing (reflected light) in a large vari-
have a corridor visual notification appliance within 15 ft             ety of rooms with a wide range of ambient lighting conditions.
(4.6 m) of the end of the corridor.
                                                                          The illumination from a visual notification appliance at a
   See Figure A.18.5.5.6 for corridor spacing for visual notifica-     particular distance is equal to the effective intensity of the
tion appliances.                                                       appliance divided by the distance squared (the inverse square

                                                                       law). Table 18.5.5.5.1(a) and Table 18.5.5.5.1(b) are based on

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-258                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 20 ft                                                                       smoke alarm, the unit must be mounted in accordance with the
(6.1 m)                                                                      requirements for the smoke detector or smoke alarm. In either
                                                                             case (stand-alone or combination), Table 18.5.5.8.3 is then
                                                                             consulted to determine the minimum required intensity.
                       100 ft (30.5 m)                                       Where the appliance is mounted less than 24 in. (610 mm)
                                                                             from the ceiling, it must have a minimum 177 cd effective
               20 ft                                                         rating because it might be in a smoke layer at the time it is
              (6.1 m)

                                                                             called upon to operate. If the appliance is 24 in. (610 mm) or
                                                                             more from the ceiling, it is permitted to be rated 110 cd effec-
                                                                             tive or more. Note that the requirement for increasing the
                                                                             intensity when mounted close to the ceiling applies only to
                                                                             visual notification appliances used in sleeping areas to awaken
                                                                             sleeping people. It is assumed that in nonsleeping situations, a
LY 15 ft                                                                     visual notification appliance is not needed to alert someone if
N (4.6 m)                                                                    there is a developing smoke layer.
                                  Visual     O 20 ft                         A.18.6 Though the number of visual notification appliances
                               notification                                  might be reduced in private operating mode settings, visual
                               appliance     (6.1 m)                         notification appliances might still need to be considered in
                                                                             spaces occupied by the public or the hearing impaired or
                 Visual                                                      subject to other laws or codes.
              notification                                                   A.18.8.1.2 The tone signal is used to evaluate the sound pres-
              appliance                                                      sure level produced by loudspeaker appliances because of the
                                                                             fluctuating sound pressure level of voice or recorded messages.
E  FIGURE A.18.5.5.6 Corridor Spacing for Visual                             A.18.9 Textual and graphical visual appliances are selected
S Notification.                                                              and installed to provide temporary text, permanent text, or
U applying the inverse square law to provide an illumination of at           symbols. Textual and graphical visual appliances are most
                                                                             commonly used in the private mode for fire alarm systems. The
least 0.0375 lumens/ft2 (0.4037 lumens/m2) throughout each                   use of microprocessors with computer monitors and printers
                                                                             has resulted in the ability to provide detailed information in
L room size. For example, a 60 cd effective intensity appliance in           the form of text and graphics to persons charged with directing
                                                                             emergency response and evacuation. Textual and graphical
a 40 ft × 40 ft (12.2 m × 12.2 m) room produces                              visual appliances are also used in the public mode to communi-
                                                                             cate emergency response and evacuation information directly
A 0.0375 lumens/ft2 (0.4037 lumens/m2) on the opposite wall                  to the occupants or inhabitants of the area protected by the
                                                                             system. For both private mode and public mode signaling, text
40 ft (12.2 m) away [60 ÷ (40 ft)2 or (60 ÷ (12.2 m)2)]. This                and graphic annunciators can provide information about pre-
                                                                             alarm, alarm, trouble, and supervisory conditions. Because
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U same 60 cd effective intensity appliance produces 0.0375 textual and graphical visual appliances do not necessarily have
                                                                             the ability to alert, they should only be used to supplement
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} lumens/ft2 (0.4037 lumens/m2) on the adjacent wall 20 ftaudible or visual notification appliances.

ID (6.1 m) away [60 × 25% ÷ (20 ft)2 or (60 × 25% ÷ (12.2 m)2)]                 Textual and graphical visual information should be of a size
                                                                             and visual quality that is easily read. Many factors influence the
where the minimum light output of the appliance at 90 degrees                readability of textual visual appliances, including the following:
                                                                             (1) Size and color of the text or graphic
IV off-axis is 25 percent of rated output per ANSI/UL 1971, Stand-           (2) Distance from the point of observation
                                                                             (3) Observation time
ard for Signaling Devices for the Hearing Impaired. Similarly, a 110         (4) Contrast
cd visual notification appliance will produce at least 0.0375                (5) Background luminance
                                                                             (6) Lighting
D lumens/ft2 (0.4037 lumens/m2) in a 54 ft × 54 ft (16.5 m ×                 (7) Stray lighting (glare)
                                                                             (8) Shadows
16.5 m) room. Calculated intensities in Table 18.5.5.5.1(a) and              (9) Physiological factors

IN Table 18.5.5.5.1(b) have been adjusted to standardize the

intensity options of presently available products and take into
account additional reflections in room corners and higher
direct viewing probability when there is more than one appli-

R ance in a room.
O The application of visual notification appliances in outdoor

areas has not been tested and is not addressed in this Code.

FVisual notification appliances that are mounted outdoors

should be listed for outdoor use (under ANSI/UL 1638, Visible
Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and Signaling Systems, Including
Accessories, for example) and should be located for direct view-
ing because reflected light will usually be greatly reduced.

 A.18.5.5.8.3 For sleeping areas, the use of visual notification                While many of these factors can be influenced by the equip-
   appliances with other intensities at distances greater than 16 ft         ment manufacturer and by the building designers, there is no
   (4.9 m) has not been researched and is not addressed in this              readily available method to measure legibility.

Code.                                                                  A.18.9.4 Parts of this section on text characteristics are based
   This section on visual notification appliances for alerting           on Section 703.5 of the updated accessibility guidelines in the
                                                                         U.S. Access Board's ADA-ABA-AG.
sleeping persons intends that stand-alone visual notification
appliances be located in accordance with 18.5.5. If the visual
notification appliance is an integral part of a smoke detector or            A.18.9.4.2 Signs are more legible for persons with low vision
                                                                             when characters contrast as much as possible with their back-

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   ANNEX A                                                                           72-259

ground. Additional factors affecting the ease with which the         A.21.1 Fire alarm systems, signaling systems, and emergency
text can be distinguished from its background include shadows        communications systems are often part of a large, integrated
cast by lighting sources, surface glare, and the uniformity of the   system serving a building or area. Figure A.21.1 shows examples
text and its background colors and textures.                         of individual systems that might be part of an integrated
                                                                     system.
Stroke width-to-height ratios are an important part of charac-
ter legibility and are affected by contrast. Ratios for light char-  A fire alarm system might monitor the status of one of the
acters on a dark background and dark characters on a light           other individual systems or provide a form of output to control
background differ because light characters or symbols tend to        another individual system, such as a smoke control system or an
spread or bleed into the adjacent dark background. To accom-         elevator controller.
modate these differences, recommendations for symbol stroke
width-to-character height ratios are as follows:                        In some cases, the fire alarm system shares information and
                                                                     control in two directions with another individual system.
   (1) Positive image -- Dark characters on a light background,      NFPA 72 covers only the fire alarm or signaling system in the
           ratio of 1:6 to 1:8                                       circuits powered by it, not any part of the other individual
                                                                     systems.
   (2) Negative image -- Light characters on a dark back-
                                                                        See NFPA 3 and NFPA 4 for additional information on inte-
  Y ground, ratio of 1:8 to 1:10                                     grated systems.
 L Source: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Human               A.21.2.1 The performance of automatic emergency control
                                                                     functions refers to their normal operation. For instance, it is all
   Factors Awareness Course available at http://www.hf.faa.gov/      right to shut down elevator mainline power when the system
                                                                     has been designed to do so.
N webtraining/Intro/Intro1.htm.                                      A.21.2.4 Emergency control function interface devices can be
                                                                     located far from the device to be actuated, such as air-handling
   A.18.9.4.4 The use of all uppercase characters in messages        units and exhaust fans located on the roof. The requirement
                                                                     for monitoring installation wiring for integrity only applies to
O should be avoided as it decreases legibility. The exception is     the wiring between the fire alarm control unit and the emer-
                                                                     gency control function interface device. For example, it does
   one- or two-word commands or statements such as stop, go, or      not apply to the wiring between the emergency control func-
                                                                     tion interface device and a motor stop/start control relay, or
E exit stair.                                                        between the emergency control function interface device and
                                                                     the equipment to be controlled (e.g., air-handling units and
 A.18.9.4.7 Paragraph 18.9.4.7 and the associated table does         exhaust fans). The location of the emergency control function
                                                                     interface device within 3 ft (910 mm) applies to the point of
S not apply to text and graphics displayed on desktop monitors.      interface and not to remotely located equipment.

   The Code does not list any specific sizing requirements for       INTEGRATED SYSTEMS

U desktop monitors. However, 18.9.3 does require them to be                                            Elevators,     Other
                                                                                                                    monitored
   clear and legible at the intended viewing distance. Other         Individual systems are each       fire doors,
                                                                                                                     system
L requirements in 18.9.4 such as contrast, sans serif fonts, and so  covered by other specifications,     dampers,
                                                                     governing laws, codes, or               etc.
   forth should still apply to desktop displays. The specific
                                                                     standards.         Typical one-way
A requirements of Table 18.9.4.7 are taken directly from
                                                                                        physical system
   Section 703.5 of the updated accessibility guidelines in the U.S.
                                                                                              connection
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Access Board's ADA-ABA-AG. The table has been reformatted
                                                                                                       Fire alarm   Smoke or
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} to be consistent with other parts of NFPA 72.                                         or        HVAC
                                                                                                                     control
ID A.18.9.4.8 The minimum height for textual and graphic visual                                        signaling
                                                                                                         system
   appliances is given as 40 in. (1.02 m) above the ground or

IV finished floor. However, the character or symbol sizes should be

   based on the height of the highest character or symbol

D displayed by the appliance.

   A.18.10.2 Notification appliances are available for the deaf

IN and hard of hearing. These appliances include, but are not

   limited to, supplemental tactical notification appliances. Such
   tactile notification appliances can be capable of awakening

R people. Tactile appliances can initiate in response to the activa-

   tion of an audible smoke alarm, through hard wiring into the
   fire alarm system or by wireless methods.

 OSome tests show that visual notification appliances might not
Fbe effective in awakening some sleeping individuals during an

   emergency. Some tactile devices can be more effective in awak-
                                                                                   Automatic                        Typical two-way
                                                                                    sprinkler                       physical system
                                                                                                                    connection
                                                                     Typical one-way wireless
                                                                             system connection

ening individuals, regardless of hearing levels, from sleep.                     Supervising           Emergency    Fire and
A.18.11 Standard Emergency Service Interface. Annunciators,                         station               comm.      smoke
information display systems, and controls for portions of a                         alarm                system       doors,
system provided for use by emergency service personnel should                       system                          dampers,

                                                                                                                       etc.

be designed, arranged, and located in accordance with the               Typical         An integrated system might rely on the
needs of the organizations intended to use the equipment.            individual              performance of individual systems
                                                                                               with no direct connection to other
                                                                        system

Where annunciators, information display systems, and                                                             individual systems

controls for portions of the system are provided for use by
emergency service personnel, these should have a common
design and operation to avoid confusion of users.
                                                                      FIGURE A.21.1 Integrated Systems. (Courtesy of R.P. Schifiliti
                                                                     Associates, Inc.)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-260                                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Where Class D circuits are utilized to actuate emergency               hoistways need smoke detectors specifically intended for those
control functions (such as but not limited to door closers, AHU        types of spaces (environments).
shutdown, and damper controls), the fire alarm control point
is not required to be within 3 ft (910 mm) of the interface          A.21.3.10 The objective of elevator Phase I Emergency Recall
point to the system or device to be controlled. It is important to     Operation is to have the elevator automatically return to the
note that in some cases these control circuits are not part of         recall level before fire can affect the safe operation of the eleva-
the fire alarm system but rather part of the other systems             tor. This includes both the safe mechanical operation of the
performing the functions. See Figure A.3.3.146.1.1 for addi-           elevator, as well as the delivery of passengers to a safe lobby
tional details.                                                        location. Where ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators
                                                                       and Escalators, specifies the use of fire alarm initiating devices
 A.21.3 The terms machinery space, control space, machine room,        used to initiate Phase I Emergency Recall Operation, these
and control room are defined in NFPA 70 and ASME A17.1/CSA             devices are expected to provide the earliest response to situa-
B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.                         tions that would require Phase I Emergency Recall Operations.
   A.21.3.2 In facilities without a building alarm system, dedica-     The use of other automatic fire detection is only intended
   ted function fire alarm control units are required by 21.3.2 for    where smoke detection would not be appropriate due to the
                                                                       environment. Where ambient conditions prohibit the installa-
Y elevator recall in order that the elevator recall systems be moni-   tion of smoke detectors, the selection and location of other
                                                                       automatic fire detection should be evaluated to ensure the best
   tored for integrity and have primary and secondary power            response is achieved. When heat detectors are used, considera-
                                                                       tion should be given to both detector temperature and time lag
L meeting the requirements of this Code.                               characteristics (Response Time Index). The consideration of a
 N The fire alarm control unit used for this purpose should be         low temperature rating alone might not provide the earliest
                                                                       response. It should be noted that smoke detectors installed in
   located in an area that is normally occupied and should have        hoistways can be a source of nuisance activation. Therefore,
                                                                       hoistways need smoke detectors specifically intended for those
O audible and visible indicators to annunciate supervisory (eleva-     types of spaces (environments). Performance-based selection of
                                                                       specific automatic fire detection suitable for elevator hoistways
   tor recall) and trouble conditions; however, no form of general     can be based on Annex Bas acceptable to the authority having
   occupant notification or evacuation signal is required or inten-    jurisdiction.

E ded by 21.3.2.                                                    N A.21.3.14.1 Refer to the definition of Group Automatic Opera-
S A.21.3.5 Smoke detectors should not be installed in outdoor          tion in ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escala-
                                                                       tors.
   locations or locations that are open to the weather (such as
                                                                          In addition to performing elevator Phase I Emergency Recall
U unenclosed elevator lobbies in open parking structures),             Operation to the Designated Level, the elevator system, upon
                                                                       receiving the fire alarm system output specified in 21.3.14.1(1),
   because such environments can exceed the parameters of the          21.3.14.1(2), or 21.3.14.1(3), will also actuate the elevator car
                                                                       visual signal (fire fighter's hat) in accordance with ASME
L detector listing and can result in unwanted alarms. (See             A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.

   21.3.10.)

A N A.21.3.7 Since it is permitted by ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety
   Code for Elevators and Escalators, to have access for fire alarm
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U initiating devices installed inside elevator hoistways, the follow-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ing are examples for proposed methods for providing such
   access (other methods could be acceptable if approved by the
   authority having jurisdiction):
IV (1) Provide an access hatch door and associated protective
          guard for a spot type fire detector, where the fire detector
 D is installed within the protective guard.
   (2) Provide an air sampling-type detector as specified in
 IN 17.7.3.6 installed outside the hoistway with its sampling
          tube installed to sample the air within the hoistway.
   (3) If heat detection is required, linear heat detectors with
          connection points located outside the hoistway or spot
 R type heat detectors installed in accordance with
          A.21.3.7(1) are acceptable.
O A.21.3.8 This requirement applies to smoke and heat detec-
Ftors installed in the hoistway. It is important to note that the
   hoistway includes the pit. The location of smoke or heat detec-
   tors will, most likely, require special consideration in order to
   provide the intended response of early detection of fire in the
   elevator pit. The location of these detectors will likely need to
   be below the lowest level of recall in order to provide an
   adequate response. Since there is no real ceiling at this loca-
   tion to allow installation using the spacing provisions of Chap-
   ter 17, the provisions of 17.7.3.1.3 and 17.4.7 should be
                                                                    N A.21.3.14.2 Refer to for the definition of Group Automatic Oper-
                                                                       ation in ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Esca-
                                                                       lators.

                                                                          In addition to preforming elevator Phase I Emergency Recall
                                                                       Operation to the Alternate Level, the elevator system, upon
                                                                       receiving the fire alarm system output specified in 21.3.14.2(1),
                                                                       21.3.14.2(2), or 21.3.14.2(3) will also actuate the elevator car
                                                                       visual signal (fire fighter's hat) in accordance with ASME
                                                                       A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.

                                                                     A.21.3.14.2(3) Where initiating devices are located in the
                                                                       elevator hoistway at or below the lowest level of recall, ASME
                                                                       A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, requires
                                                                       that the elevator be sent to the upper recall level. Note that the
                                                                       lowest level of recall could be the designated level or alternate
                                                                       level as determined by the local authority for the particular
                                                                       installation. Also note that the elevator hoistway, as defined in
                                                                       ASME A17.1, includes the elevator pit.
                                                                    ·
considered, which allows detectors to be placed closer to the          A.21.4.1  When determining desired performance, considera-
                                                                       tion should be given to the temperature and response time
hazard in a position where the detector can intercept the              characteristics/index (RTI) of both the sprinkler and the heat
smoke or heat. Also refer to A.21.3.14.2(3).                           detector to ensure that the heat detector will operate prior to

A.21.3.9 It should be noted that smoke detectors installed in          the sprinkler, because a lower temperature rating alone might
hoistways can be a source of nuisance activation. Therefore,           not provide earlier response.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          ANNEX A                                                                  72-261

 A.21.4.2 The purpose of spacing heat detectors in close prox-     lobbies, machine rooms, machinery spaces, or control rooms
imity to each sprinkler is to ensure the operation of the discon-  that provide full bodily access for fire fighters, as follows:
necting means upon heat detection prior to the operation of
any sprinkler installed in those locations. Spot-type heat detec-  (1) Normal 90°F (32°C)
tors or linear heat detectors are acceptable.                      (2) Monitoring (supervisory) between 90°F (32°C) and 135°F

                                                                          (57°C)
                                                                   (3) Unsafe (alarm) above 135°F (57°C)
 A.21.4.3 Care should be taken to ensure that elevator power
cannot be interrupted due to water pressure surges in the
sprinkler system. The intent of the Code is to ensure that the        Indications at the fire alarm control unit would typically be
switch and the system as a whole do not have the capability of     as follows:

introducing a time delay into the sequence. The use of a switch    For smoke:
   with a time delay mechanism set to zero does not meet the
   intent of the Code, because it is possible to introduce a time
   delay after the system has been accepted. This might occur in
   response to unwanted alarms caused by surges or water move-
   ment, rather than addressing the underlying cause of the

Y surges or water movement (often due to air in the piping).
L Permanently disabling the delay in accordance with the manu-

   facturer's printed instructions should be considered accepta-

N ble.

   A.21.4.4 Figure A.21.4.4 illustrates one method of monitoring

O elevator shunt trip control power for integrity.

N· A.21.5 The continuous monitoring of smoke and temperature

E is to allow the responding fire fighters to know when the

   tenability conditions at the floor elevator lobbies are changing.

S This can be accomplished at a minimum by monitoring eleva-

   tor lobbies, machine rooms, control rooms, machinery spaces,

U or control spaces smoke detector(s) for the presence of smoke

   and a minimum of three ranges of temperature in the elevator

  AL Shunt trip
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U disconnecting

      8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} means
 IVID * R1                                                            (1) No indication for normal
FOR IND EOL                         R2                                (2) Red/alarm messaging or unsafe

                                 *                                       For heat:
                                                     EOL              (1) Green (no indication on fire alarm control unit) for a

                 Hot Neutral     * Relay contacts shown                      normal range
                                  de-energized                        (2) Amber/yellow/supervisory messaging for monitor range
                 120 volt ac                                          (3) Red/alarm messaging for unsafe
                     circuit          Supervisory signal
                                      to fire alarm                      Note 1: Temperature monitoring should not be required in
              (Power to operate       control unit                    areas or locations not accessible to fire fighters, such as elevator
                 the shunt trip                                       control spaces and elevator machinery spaces located inside
                disconnecting                                         the elevator hoistway.
                    means)
                                                                         Note 2: If fire service access elevators or occupant evacuation
                                                                      elevators are provided in buildings not provided with a fire
                                                                      command center, such as low-rise buildings, the required
                                                                      annunciator(s) should be installed in another approved loca-
                                                                      tion as determined by the authority having jurisdiction.

                                                                         In most cases, a separate annunciator would be recommen-
                                                                      ded to provide an overall status of the elevator lobbies,
                                                                      machine rooms, or control rooms that provide full bodily
                                                                      access for fire fighters in the building.

                                                                         The lowest temperature defined in Table 17.6.2.1, Tempera-
                                                                      ture Classification and Color Code for Heat-Sensing Fire Detec-
                                                                      tors, is 100°F (38°C), so a thermostat or other approved heat
                                                                      sensor(s) should be used to monitor temperatures less than
                                                                      100°F (38°C).
                                                                   N A.21.6 Refer to the applicable building code for application
                                                                      requirements and definitions related to occupant evacuation
                                                                      elevators (OEE). OEE are not required by code, and they will
                                                                      be provided for a relatively limited number of buildings, mainly
                                                                      office use high-rise buildings over 420 ft (128 m) in lieu of a
                                                                      required additional stairway as a building code exception. They
                                                                      could also be provided on a voluntary basis in other buildings
                                                                      due to ADA or mobility of occupants concerns. It is highly
                                                                      recommended that those involved with design and installation
                                                                      of these systems become familiar with available information
                                                                      such as ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Esca-
                                                                      lators, Section 2.27, regarding occupant evacuation operation
                                                                   (OEO) and its nonmandatory Appendix V, "Building Features
                                                                   for Occupant Evacuation Operation." It will be imperative that
                                                                   a great amount of coordination and performance-based design
                                                                   be done between elevator and fire alarm system designers,
                                                                   installation contractors, and the authority having jurisdiction.
Supervised elevator       To initiating

power circuit from        device circuit                           Figure A.21.6 demonstrates the basics of OEO. This is a
fire alarm system
                                                                   simplified flowchart and is not intended to show all required
                                                                   inputs, outputs, or interfaces. This figure demonstrates some
R1 = Relay 1

R2 = Relay 2                                                       functions that are dictated by ASME A17.1/CSA B44 for refer-

EOL = End-of-line device                                           ence only. Inclusion of elevator system operations in this figure

FIGURE A.21.4.4 Typical Method of Providing Elevator               is not intended to suggest that the fire alarm system is responsi-
Power Shunt Trip Supervisory Signal.                               ble for the feature.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-262                                                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N A.21.6.2.1.1 The term groupautomatic operation is defined in N A.21.6.2.3.1 This signal to the elevator system is caused by the
ASME A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators.                               activation of a fire alarm initiating device other than that which
Other terms such as elevator group or group of elevators are used                           is described in 21.3.14.1 and 21.3.14.2.
in Section 26.6 to refer to those elevators sharing a common
landing call operation. For instance, if an elevator landing call              N A.21.6.2.3.2 The elevator evacuation zone would typically be
is registered on a particular floor, any elevator that could                      the floor of an active alarm plus two floors above and two floors
respond to that call would be considered in that elevator                         below the floor with the active alarm for a total of five floors or
group. Elevators in an elevator group typically share a lobby,                    as otherwise determined by the authority having jurisdiction.

hoistway, and/or machine/control room or control space.                        N A.21.6.2.3.3 The elevator discharge level is considered the

N A.21.6.2.1.2 When OEO is actuated either manually or auto-                                same level as the designated level of elevator recall for an indi-
   matically, it is applicable to all elevators serving the floors of                       vidual elevator or a group of elevators. More than a single
   the elevator evacuation zone. However, when a single elevator                            elevator discharge level can exist in a building.

or elevator group is placed on manual Elevator Phase I Emer-
gency Recall Operation, OEO continues to operate for the
other elevator groups serving the elevator evacuation zone.

Y Similarly, when a fire alarm initiating device(s) described in
L 21.3.14.1 and 21.3.14.2 is actuated, Elevator Phase I Emergency

Recall Operation will cause recall only to the elevator group

N and not to all elevators in the elevator evacuation zone not

associated with that group of recalled elevators. See also

O 21.6.2.8.
                                                                               N A.21.6.2.3.6 If there are different elevator discharge levels in
                                                                                  the building, then separate signals from the fire alarm system
                                                                                  should be sent to each elevator group serving the active alarm
                                                                                  floors to allow for OEO operation of those elevators when the
                                                                                  alarm is not at the elevator discharge level. The fire alarm
                                                                                  system should not send signal(s) to the elevator system to
                                                                                  initiate OEO for a group of elevators when the first active
                                                                                  alarm is at the discharge level for that group. Subsequent active
                                                                                  alarms at any levels should not cause the fire alarm system to
                                                                                  send signal(s) to the elevator system to initiate OEO for that
                                                                                  group of elevators. When the first active alarm is not on the
USE Manual activation of
                                                                                                                                     De nitions:
 Elevator Phase I Emergency                                                                                                          OEO ­ Occupant Evacuation Operation
                                                                                                                                     FCC ­ Fire Command Center
L Recall Operation with a Group                                                                                                      Elevator Evacuation Zone ­ Zone
        FIRE Recall Key                                                                                                              comprises ve oors: the oor with
 A Recall                                                                                                                            an active alarm and two oors above
                                                                                                                                     and two oors below.
       associated                                                                                                                    FA ­ Fire Alarm

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U elevators.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} OEOisprohibited    Scenario 1                                 Scenario 2                             Scenario 3
FOR INDIV orterminated.         Automatic activation of a re              Manual activation of OEO from        Manual activation of total building

                                    alarm initiating device                   the FCC ( oor selection)              evacuation from the FCC

                                               Is this re alarm                The FA system sends a                                      Elevator System OEO Priorities:
                                                                               signal to the elevator                                     1. First oor with an active alarm
                                               initiating device      NO       system indicating an active                                2. Subsequent oors with active
                                                                               alarm on the oor with the
                                located in the elevator lobby,                 active re alarm initiating                                   alarms in order of activation
                                                                               device or the oor manually                                 3. Manually selected oors from
                                elevator machine room, control room,           selected from the FCC.
                                                                                                                                             the FCC
                                               control space,                                                                             4. Highest oor in the elevator

                                                                                                                                            evacuation zone when total
                                                                                                                                            building evacuation is selected

                           YES                 machinery space,

                                               or hoistway?                                                           The elevator system sends a signal to the FA system indicating that
                                                                                                                      all elevators are out of service and are not available for OEO.
                           Activate automatic                                    Is at least one               NO ­The elevator system indicates on the variable message signs that
                            Elevator Phase I                                   elevator available                     elevator(s) are not available ­ use stairs to evacuate.
                           Emergency Recall                                                                           ­The FA system sends coordinated audio messages indicating that
                                                                                    for OEO?                          elevators are not available for evacuation ­ use stairs to evacuate.
                                Operation.

                                                                          YES

YES                        Start OEO using all available elevators based on preassigned OEO priorities.

                           ­The elevator system indicates on the variable message signs that elevators

                           are available for evacuation and their estimated arrival time in minutes.

              END          ­The FA system sends coordinated audio messages to the elevator

                           evacuation zone indicating that elevators and stairs are available for evacuation.

                           ­The FA system sends coordinated messages to other oors outside the elevator

                           evacuation zone that are served by the elevators in OEO operation indicating

        OEO continues             that elevators are not available.                                            Was a subsequent           The FA system expands the
        until there is no  NO                                                                                   re alarm initiating       elevator evacuation zone to
         more elevator                                                                                                                    include all oors between the
                                                                                                                                     YES   oors with active alarms plus
            demand.
                                                                                                               device activated on
                           Has the FA system                                                                      another oor?            two oors above and two
                             been RESET?                                                                                                   oors below the oors with
                                                                                                                                          active alarms.

                                                                                                                      NO

FIGURE A.21.6 Simplified Occupant Evacuation Operation (OEO) (Elevator system interface with the building fire alarm system
based on ASME A17.1, Section 2.27.11, and NFPA 72, Section 21.6).

2019 Edition                    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX A                                                                                                                                       72-263

discharge level, the fire alarm system should send signals to the                      jurisdiction. For further information on voice messaging strat-
elevator system to initiate OEO for that group of elevators and                        egies refer to NIST Technical Note 1779, General Guidance on
all subsequent active alarms, including at the elevator discharge                      Emergency Communication Strategies for Buildings and FPRF Elevator
level.                                                                                 Messaging Strategies.

N A.21.6.2.4 The manual selection means such as a switch or a                          A.21.6.2.6.3 This new message will require a signal(s) from
push button for each floor is intended in lieu of automatic                            the elevator system to the fire alarm system. This signal(s) will
initiating devices that could be impaired or out of service and                        indicate to the fire alarm system that all elevators serving an
would otherwise have actuated to provide automatic initiation                          elevator evacuation zone are not available due to Elevator
in accordance with 21.6.2.3. Manual fire alarm boxes are not                           Phase I Emergency Recall Operation or due to other elevator
included because they are typically actuated at locations                              condition(s) such as inspection, operation, and malfunction.
   remote from the fire. The manual selection means could also
   serve to evacuate the building or portions of the building for                      N A.21.6.2.6.4 The emergency voice/alarm communications
   non-fire-related emergencies. The manual selection means is                            system's loudspeaker(s) located in each OEE lobby are not
   required to provide a maintained nonlatching output(s) from                            permitted to transmit automatic voice messages since they
   the fire alarm system to the elevator system to prevent the need                       could interrupt occupants using the required OEE elevator
                                                                                          lobby two-way communication system. Therefore, manual
Y for fire alarm system reset upon a wrong or unwanted manual                             paging zones are required for those loudspeakers by applicable
L selection of a floor(s).                                                                building code(s). The specific zone selection will be performed
                                                                                          from a fire alarm system paging panel located in the FCC.
N A.21.6.2.5 The fire alarm system uses the floor identification                          Since a very large number of individual paging zones could be
                                                                                          required, it is permitted to group all OEE lobbies' loudspeak-
N to automatically establish an elevator evacuation zone for voice                        ers per floor or vertically per elevator group as a single paging
                                                                                          zone. The OEE lobby paging zone will be dedicated to loud-
   messaging purposes. The elevator system also uses the floor                            speakers that only serve OEE lobbies and will be separate from
                                                                                          all other loudspeakers outside of an OEE lobby.
O identification to determine the contiguous block of floors to be
                                                                                       N A.21.6.2.8 Suspension of OEO can occur when an individual
   evacuated (elevator evacuation zone, see A.21.6.2.3.2). The                            elevator or group of elevators is recalled by fire fighters using
                                                                                          key operated switch(es). It is important to recognize that OEO
E elevator evacuation zone is updated to reflect changing condi-                          continues operation using the available elevator(s). The affec-
                                                                                          ted elevator(s) will return to OEO operation when fire fighters'
   tions as indicated by the output signal(s). This information is                        emergency operation has been reset.

S sent to the elevator system and also used for occupant notifica-                     N A.21.6.2.9 Partial termination can occur when a particular
                                                                                          group of elevators has been taken out of service because they
   tion. The output signals from the fire alarm system can be in                          have been recalled under automatic Elevator Phase I Emer-
                                                                                          gency Recall Operation, but other elevator(s) in the elevator
U the form of contact closures or serial communications or other                          evacuation zone are still available for evacuation.

   approved means. Coordination needs to be provided between                           N A.21.6.2.10 OEO will not actuate if no elevators are available.
                                                                                          There are several instances where signals must be received
L the fire alarm system installer, the elevator system installer, and                     from the elevator system. One of these is when the Elevator
                                                                                          Phase I Emergency Recall key switch is used to manually
   the authority having jurisdiction.                                                     initiate recall for all elevators. Another situation requiring a
                                                                                          signal from the elevator system is when the elevator system
A  A.21.6.2.6 Prerecorded automatic voice messages provided by
   the in-building fire emergency voice/alarm communications

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U system need to be coordinated with the variable message signs

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} provided separately by the elevator system to all affected eleva-

ID tor lobbies and floors served by the elevator(s) operating in

   OEO so that occupants will understand what to expect and how

IV to react. Additional visual information will be provided in each

   affected elevator lobby by the elevator system to further inform
   occupants of the status of the elevators. Refer also to 24.3.6 and

D associated Annex A material (Messages for One-Way Emer-

   gency Communications Systems) for additional information. It

IN is important to note that all elevator lobbies served by eleva-

   tor(s) operating in OEO, both within the elevator evacuation
   zone and on other floors outside that zone, will be considered
   as affected lobbies, and they will be provided with variable

R messages controlled by the elevator system. The fire alarm

   system will not provide automatic voice messages in the affec-

Oted elevator lobbies, but rather it will provide automatic
Fmessages to all floors having those affected lobbies via audible

   appliances located outside those lobbies. The messages provi-
   ded by the fire alarm system and the elevator system on the
   affected floors and lobbies must be coordinated so as not to
   conflict with each other. It is especially important to address
                                                                   N Table A.21.6.2.6 Sample Voice Message Content

                                                                                                     Condition               Sample Voice Message
                                                                                       Specific block of floors being   "Elevators and stairs are

                                                                                         evacuated                        available for evacuation."
                                                                                       Floors not in the elevator       "Elevators are not available;

                                                                                         evacuation zone within an        they are temporarily
                                                                                         elevator group performing        dedicated to other floors."
                                                                                       OEO
additional automatic or manual alarm actuation(s) and the                              On the discharge level           "Elevators are dedicated to
impact on expanding the elevator evacuation zone and the
corresponding voice messaging that has to adjust to the                                                                 evacuation. Do not enter
                                                                                                                        elevator."
change. Table A.21.6.2.6 gives sample voice message content to                         If some elevators have been "Elevators and stairs are
be added to normal messaging (to be coordinated with the
variable message display provided by the elevator contractor).                         recalled but other               available for evacuation."
Voice messaging is permitted to all other floor(s) in the build-
ing not in the elevator evacuation zone and not served by eleva-                       elevator(s) are still available
                                                                                       If all elevators serving a floor "Elevators are out of service.
tor(s) performing OEO in accordance with the facility                                  or elevator evacuation zone Use stairs to evacuate."
emergency response plan approved by the authority having
                                                                                       are recalled

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-264                                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

cannot provide the intended operation. In this case the fire                                          software. It is trying to avoid a situation where a change in soft-
alarm system needs to know so it does not provide incorrect                                           ware revision might still be compatible but changes the availa-
messaging to a floor(s). See also A.21.6.2.6.3.                                                       ble functionality so that the two systems no longer perform the
                                                                                                      intended functions, even though the software communicates
A.21.7.2 This Code does not specifically require detection                                            correctly.
devices used to cause the operation of HVAC system smoke
dampers, fire dampers, fan control, smoke doors, or fire doors                                        A.23.2.2.1.2 Compatibility between systems will be documen-
to be connected to the fire alarm system.                                                             ted in one or the other (or both) of the manufacturer's installa-
                                                                                                         tion documents for the compatible products and controlled by
   A.21.10.1 Doors are commonly locked for various security                                              the listings agencies. This documentation will be referenced in
   reasons. Though doors are permitted to be locked to prevent                                           the marking on the product. The documentation might be
   ingress, doors are generally not permitted to be locked to                                            paper copy or electronic media (disk, website, etc.). When a
   restrict egress unless specifically permitted by governing laws,                                      software revision changes, the documentation can be consulted
   codes, and standards. Examples of special locking arrange-                                            to ensure that it is still compatible with the software or firm-
   ments include delayed egress locking and access control lock-                                         ware on the other side of the interface.
   ing. Approved locking requirements by governing laws, codes,                                          A.23.2.2.2 A commonly used method of protecting against
                                                                                                         unauthorized changes can be described as follows (in ascend-
Y and standards can vary extensively. For example, some might                                            ing levels of access):
                                                                                                         (1) Access Level 1. Access by persons who have a general
   require all fire alarm initiating devices to immediately unlock
                                                                                                                responsibility for safety supervision, and who might be
L electrically locked egress doors, while others might permit such                                              expected to investigate and initially respond to a fire
                                                                                                                alarm or trouble signal
   doors to remain locked when a single manual fire alarm box is                                         (2) Access Level 2. Access by persons who have a specific
                                                                                                                responsibility for safety, and who are trained to operate
N actuate. Some codes might also permit electrically locked doors                                               the control unit
                                                                                                         (3) Access Level 3. Access by persons who are trained and
   to remain locked when a single smoke detector has actuated.                                                  authorized to do the following:
                                                                                                                (a) Reconfigure the site-specific data held within the
O These allowances are typically permitted only in sprinklered
                                                                                                                        control unit, or controlled by it
   buildings and are generally used as additional safeguards to                                                 (b) Maintain the control unit in accordance with the

E counter efforts to breach security, without compromising occu-                                                        manufacturer's published instructions and data
                                                                                                         (4) Access Level 4. Access by persons who are trained and
   pant safety.
                                                                                                                authorized either to repair the control unit or to alter its
S A.21.10.3 A problem could exist when batteries are used as a                                                  site-specific data or operating system program, thereby
                                                                                                                changing its basic mode of operation
   secondary power source if a fire alarm control unit having                                         N A.23.3.1 Building codes provide requirements for systems
                                                                                                         such as sprinklers, fire alarm systems, standpipe systems, and so
U 24 hours of standby operating power were to lose primary                                               forth.
                                                                                                            These requirements are based on the occupancy of a build-
   power and be operated for more than 24 hours from the secon-                                          ing. Inspection and testing verifies compliance to the code(s).
                                                                                                         Upon completion of all inspection and testing, the authority
L dary power source (batteries). It is possible that sufficient volt-                                    having jurisdiction will issue an occupancy permit, allowing
                                                                                                         people to utilize the building for its intended use.
   age would be available to keep the doors locked, but not                                                 Once the occupancy permits have been granted, these
                                                                                                         systems are not allowed to be removed or modified without the
A enough voltage would be available to operate the fire alarm                                            approval of the property or building or system owner or the
                                                                                                         owner's designated representative. See 23.6.3.5.
   control unit to release the locks.                                                                       This can create issues when there is not a clear understand-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.21.11 When a fire alarm evacuation signal actuates, the exit
ID marking system will be actuated. In some cases, the activation

   might be sequenced to meet the fire safety plan of the prop-
   erty.

IV  A.23.1.1 Chapter 23 is intended to cover alarm and signaling
   systems and their components, such as fire alarm, mass notifica-
D tion, carbon monoxide, and other signaling systems.
IN A.23.2.1 Systems can be installed for the purposes of life
   safety, property protection, or both. Evacuation or relocation is
   not a required output action for every system installed in
   accordance with Chapter 23.
R A.23.2.2.1.1 Compatibility between software systems is neces-
O sary to ensure that the systems can communicate correctly and
   that the overall system can function as intended. Unfortunately,
Fsoftware that is compatible can become incompatible when the
software is updated. Newer revisions of software might not                                            ing of the separation between the fire protection system and
maintain compatibility with older revisions. This paragraph                                           the tenant equipment. Class N shared pathways allow for Level
requires that the fire alarm software or firmware that interfaces
with software or firmware in another system is compatible. An                                         1 or Level 2 pathways to be shared with life safety and non­life
                                                                                                      safety equipment as long as the criteria outlined in 23.6.3 is
example might be a smoke control system that gets information                                         met. The building system is allowed to leverage the tenant's
from the fire alarm system. The term "required" indicates that                                        equipment, and in this case the tenant is not allowed to remove
this compatibility requirement is intended for required func-                                         or modify that equipment.
tions (e.g., smoke control) and not for supplemental functions
that are not part of the required operation of the fire alarm                                         The use of Ethernet (wired or wireless) is an example where
                                                                                                      the tenant might have installed an Ethernet infrastructure that
system. An example of a supplemental function might be an                                             could easily be leveraged for the installation of additional fire
RS-232 port that connects to a terminal emulator program used                                         alarm system capacity, but once that system is installed, tested,
for maintenance purposes. The term "functionally" is intended                                         and inspected per the code, the IT team can no longer remove
to ensure that the intended functionality is maintained by the                                        or modify the system without the approval of the property or

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

       ANNEX A                                                                                                                     72-265

building or system owner or the owner's designated representa-                     be Class A, with isolators to protect against shorts. Where the
tive.                                                                              power wires never supply more than 10 devices, the power
                                                                                   wires could be wired as Class B.
A.23.3.2 Nonrequired fire alarm features are defined in
3.3.180. These are fire alarm systems or components that are                       A.23.6.1 The intent of 23.6.1 applies to both short-circuit
not required by the building or fire codes and are installed                       faults and open-circuit faults.
voluntarily by a building owner to meet site-specific fire safety
objectives. There is a need to properly document the nonre-            Fire alarm and signaling system communications technolo-
quired system and components. Nonrequired components                gies have evolved to the point that SLCs are now the prevalent
must be operationally compatible in harmony with other              means of monitoring initiation devices, controlling output devi-
required components and must not be detrimental to the over-        ces, and communicating between panels, annunciators, and
all system performance. It is for this reason that 23.3.2.1         controllers.

mandates that nonrequired (voluntary) systems and compo-                           The extent of coverage of traditional IDCs is inherently limi-
   nents meet the applicable installation, testing, and mainte-
   nance requirements of this Code. It is not the intent of the                    ted based on the quantity of powered initiation devices or code
   Code to have the installation of nonrequired (voluntary)                        limitations. Similarly, the extent and coverage of NACs also are
                                                                                   limited by the power required to operate the devices. SLCs,
Y systems or components trigger a requirement for the installa-                    unlike IDCs and NACs, have few limitations, and it is now
L tion of additional fire alarm components or features in the                      common that a single SLC can monitor and control more than
                                                                                   250 devices. In addition, a single SLC can be the only pathway
   building. For example, if a building owner voluntarily installs a               by which alarms are initiated, emergency control functions are
                                                                                   controlled, and audible and visual notification appliances are
N fire alarm control unit to transmit sprinkler waterflow signals to               actuated.

   a central station, that does not trigger a requirement to install                  A total catastrophic failure of a fire alarm and life safety
                                                                                   system due to a single open or short on an SLC can negate
O other fire alarm system components or features, such as                          most, if not all, of this Code's requirements for specifying an
                                                                                   acceptable minimum level of performance and reliability for
   manual fire alarm boxes, occupant notification, or electronic                   the protection of life and property from fire.
   supervision of sprinkler control valves. See also A.17.5.3.3 and
                                                                                      Designers should carefully consider the potential that a
E A.18.1.5.                                                                        single SLC short or open caused by a fire or inadvertent
 S Alternatively, supervision and power requirements are                           damage to the SLC could disable an entire SLC prior to the
                                                                                   activation of an alarm condition along with the subsequent
   required to be taken into account for the nonrequired compo-                    alarm signaling and emergency control functions.

U nents/systems on the required fire alarm systems.                                   With traditional IDCs and NACs, a single open, ground, or
                                                                                   short fault on one circuit could not affect the performance of
 A.23.3.3.1 The following functions are included in Annex A to                     other IDCs, NACs, and emergency control circuits. As such, the
                                                                                   occurrence of a single short or open could limit the extent of
L provide guidelines for utilizing building systems and equip-                     the failure to a particular zone or area.

   ment in addition to proprietary fire alarm equipment in order                      One method for providing an acceptable level of perform-
                                                                                   ance and reliability of SLCs is to limit the potential catastrophic
A to provide life safety and property protection. Building func-                   failure to one zone, in a way similar to how traditional IDCs
                                                                                   and NACs have been and are now required to do.
   tions that should be initiated or controlled during a fire alarm
                                                                                      A single zone could be designated in the following ways:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U condition include, but should not be limited to, the following:(1) By floor where an SLC would not span multiple floors
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (1) Elevator operation consistent with ASME A17.1/CSA B44, (2) By floor area, where a large floor would be split into

           Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators                                       multiple zones based on a maximum floor area size (e.g.,
   (2) Unlocking of stairwell and exit doors (see NFPA 80 and                             22,500 ft2)
                                                                                   (3) By fire barrier or smoke barrier compartment bounda-
  IV NFPA 101)                                                                            ries, which an SLC would not cross

   (3) Release of fire and smoke dampers (see NFPA 90A and
           NFPA 90B)

D (4) Monitoring and initiating of self-contained automatic fire
           extinguishing system(s) or suppression system(s) and
  IN equipment (see NFPA 11, NFPA 12, NFPA 12A, NFPA 13,
           NFPA 14, NFPA 15, NFPA 17, NFPA 17A, and NFPA 750)
   A.23.3.3.2 Examples of dedicated function fire alarm systems

R would include an elevator recall control and supervisory

   control unit, as addressed in 21.3.2, or a system used specifi-

Ocally to monitor sprinkler waterflow and supervisory functions.
FA.23.4.2.2 The intent of this paragraph is to prevent situations
where the signaling line circuit to a device is required to be                     (4) By maximum length or circuit, where an SLC would not
                                                                                   be longer than a predetermined length (e.g., 300 ft)
one class of operation, while the power circuits, running in the
same raceways and subject to the same threats, are wired to a
lower class of operation. This means that it is possible to have                      See the definition of zone (3.3.324) and Figure A.23.6.1(a)
power wiring connected to a device that is of a different class                    through Figure A.23.6.1(d) for additional clarification.

than the signaling line or initiating device circuits. One exam-                   Figure A.23.6.1(a) depicts a Class B SLC with four zones.
ple of where meeting the same minimum performance require-                         Wiring of more zones would require one isolator for each addi-
ments would still allow different classes of wiring is where the                   tional zone. The isolator can be integrated into the device or a
performance requirements are based on distance or the                              separate component. If a single short or open occurs beyond
number of devices attached to the wires. For example, if the                       the isolators, only one zone will be affected.
signaling line circuit supplies 200 devices and the performance
requirement is that not more than 10 devices be lost to a wiring                      Figure A.23.6.1(b) depicts a Class A SLC with four zones.
fault, then the class of wiring on the signaling line circuit will                 Wiring of more zones would require one isolator for each addi-
                                                                                   tional zone. The isolator can be integrated into the device or a

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-266                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

separate component. If a single short or open occurs, only one                    ISO Isolation module
zone will be affected. If a single open occurs, no devices will be
affected.
                                                                                                        S         F  S

Figure A.23.6.1(c) depicts a hybrid Class A SLC loop with                                                                 Floor 4
Class B SLC branches serving four zones that is designated as a
Class B SLC. Wiring of more zones would require one isolator                                                         S
for each additional zone. The isolator can be integrated into                                                             ISO
the device or a separate component. If a single short occurs,
only one zone will be affected. If a single open occurs, it might                                       S
                                                                                                                  F

affect only one zone.

Figure A.23.6.1(d) depicts an incorrect Class B SLC configu-                                                              Floor 3

                                                                                                                     S
   ration with four zones. If a single short or open occurs, one or               ISO                   S         F
   more zones could be affected depending on the location of the
   single short.                                                                                        S         F       Floor 2

Y A.23.6.1.3 The intent is to clarify that the requirement identi-                                                   S
L fied in 23.6.1 applies only to SLCs that connect to addressable                                                        ISO

   devices and not to SLCs that interconnect fire alarm control                   ISO ISO               See Note

N units (FACU) or transponders.                                                   FACU

N A.23.6.1.3(3) In many cases, existing systems are partially

O modified with addressable devices being added as a part of the

   scope of work. In this case the SLC might not have been instal-

E led in a manner that could be easily modified to accommodate

   isolation modules and/or keep a single SLC loop confined to a

S single zone. This condition makes it clear that the require-

   ments of SLC zones do not apply to existing systems that were

U not required to meet the zoning requirements of 23.6.1 when

   originally installed.

L A.23.6.1.5 Possible scenarios in which a designer might

   choose to permit loss of more than one zone include a multi-

A story building with a small floor plan footprint where a limited

   number of addressable devices are located on the floor (e.g.,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U one manual fire alarm box and two automatic fire detection
                                                                                                                                                                            Floor 1
                                                                                       Note: The two isolation modules shown at the FACU are not required if the
                                                                                       panel SLC controller is internally isolated from shorts between outgoing
                                                                                       and return termination points.

                                                                                   FIGURE A.23.6.1(b) Class A Isolation Method.

                                                                                  ISO Isolation module
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ISO Isolation module
                       IV S                                                                             S         F  S

                                                                                  ISO                                     Floor 4

                       IND SF       S                                                                                S

                                                                                                        S         F        Floor 3

                                                                                  ISO                                S

                                                    Floor 4

                                               S
FOR Floor 3                   F                                                                         S         F

                                                                                  ISO

                        S                      S                                                                        Floor 2

                                 F

                                                                                                        S         F  S

                                               Floor 2                            ISO ISO               See Note

                                                                                  FACU

                           S        F             S                                                                                                                         Floor 1
                                                                                       Note: The two isolation modules shown at the FACU are not required if the
FACU ISO ISO ISO ISO                                                                   panel SLC controller is internally isolated from shorts between outgoing
                                                                                       and return termination points.
              See Note                         Floor 1
                                                                                   FIGURE A.23.6.1(c) Hybrid Isolation Method.
Note: Paragraph 23.6.1.3(2) allows an un-isolated circuit in metallic raceway or
other equivalently protected method that does not exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) in length.

 FIGURE A.23.6.1(a) Class B Isolation Method.

2019 Edition            Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                   ANNEX A                                                                       72-267

ISO Isolation module                                                                       Class A and B pathways are permitted to lose devices in a
                                                                                        zone (see Section 23.6) upon a multiple ground-fault pathway
                                                                                        failure. Class A and B pathways require a single ground to be
                      S    F  S                                                         annunciated as a trouble signal. The requirement is to annun-

                              ISO                                                       ciate the first ground fault and alert the user so that the
                                                                                        ground fault can be addressed before a possible second ground
                                                                                        fault occurs. Note that a second ground fault is also annunci-
                                   Floor 4

                                                                                        ated at the systems operator interface because communication
                                                                                        is lost.
                      S    F  S

                                                                                        Class X pathways are not permitted to lose devices in a zone
                                                                                        (see Section 23.6) upon a multiple ground-fault pathway failure
                      ISO                                                               that results in a short circuit across the pathway. Class X path-
                                                                                        ways require a single ground to be annunciated as a trouble
                      NLY SSF       Floor 3                                             signal. The requirement is to annunciate the first ground fault
                                                                                        and alert the user so that the ground fault can be addressed
                              S                                                         before a possible second ground fault occurs.

                              ISO                                                          By contrast, Class N is not required to report a trouble
                                    Floor 2                                             condition at the occurrence of the first ground fault because it
                                                                                        limits the loss to a single device if another ground occurs. A
                              S                                                         second ground fault in the Class N pathway, like Class A and B
    E O FACU               F                                                            pathways, annunciates a trouble condition at the systems opera-
              S Floor 1                                                                 tor interface because communication is lost.

   FIGURE A.23.6.1(d) Incorrect Use of Isolators on an SLC.                                In summary, the potential risk of a loss of fire alarm function
                                                                                        in an area must be considered in Class N network design.
L U devices). In this scenario, the designer might choose to include                    Multiple ground faults might cause such a loss in an area, espe-
                                                                                        cially after no one was alerted of a trouble condition at the first
   multiple floors of devices on the same signaling line circuit                        ground fault.

A because the loss of such devices due to a single SLC short or                            The term "device" in this context should be understood in
                                                                                        conjunction with the definition of Device (Class N) 3.3.71 and
   open would disable a limited number of devices.                                      the associated annex material A.3.3.71. An area is a separated
                                                                                        space within a zone where initiating devices or notification
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Another scenario could include buildings with a small vesti-        appliances are required. Examples include an office, confer-
                                                                                        ence rooms, or temporary partitioned banquet rooms where
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} bule at the top of a stair that exits onto the roof of a building.alarm notification is required. Factors to consider when deter-
                                                                                        mining the need for multiple Class N devices within an area or
ID The vestibule might contain one manual fire alarm box and                            zone include the following: whether the space is acoustically
                                                                                        and/or visually isolated; specific audible and visual indication
   one or two automatic fire detection devices that could be                            of trouble to the occupants in that area for a related ground-
                                                                                        fault pathway failure of any device/appliance in that area; the
IV connected to the signaling line circuit on the floor below and                       pathways to devices in the area are not susceptible to ground
                                                                                        faults such as fiber or wireless pathways.
   considered the same zone.
                                                                                           Also, multiple devices are not required when devices/appli-
 D Designers providing documents for upgrades to an existing                            ances are connected by redundant pathways. For example,
                                                                                        consider the dual port devices deployed as per A.12.3.6(5). For
   building where the control units and all fire alarm system devi-                     example, the failure of a sole Class N initiating device might
                                                                                        delay or prevent the timely initiation of an alarm.
IN ces are being replaced but some portion of the existing circuits
                                                                                           Depending on the facility and the risks for that occupancy,
   are being reused might, because of constructability reasons, opt                     areas serviced by single devices, without redundant pathways,
   for combining zones and the associated risk of the loss of those                     that are susceptible to ground faults should be established by
   devices due to a single SLC short or open.                                           the system designer and approved by the authority having juris-
                                                                                        diction.
 R The intent of 23.6.1.5 is not to impose an unnecessary
Oburden on building owners with existing systems undergoing

   renovations, upgrades, or replacements. In these scenarios as

Fwell as others, the designer would be required to provide a
   documented, performance-based design approach to justify
   why the loss of more than one zone is acceptable. Documenta-
   tion must be composed in accordance with 23.6.2.4 and be
   submitted in accordance with 7.3.7.5.
                                                                     N A.23.6.2.3 This requirement is to ensure that devices without
N A.23.6.2 Class N systems should mitigate risk that could be           redundant pathways are not used to terminate additional
   present when a zone or area is serviced by a single Class N          equipment such that a loss of the pathway would result in more
   device. However, 23.6.2 is not intended to automatically             than one device failure to communicate and operate as inten-
   require the installation of twice as many (or more) Class N          ded. This stipulation does not apply to dual port devices as
   devices as compared to a design based on Class A, B, or X path-      described in A.12.3.6(5), because these devices support redun-
   ways. The risks inherent to Class N are different from the risks     dant pathways. A dual port device that is used to daisy-chain
   inherent to Class A, B, or X.                                        additional devices without a redundant pathway would be

                                                                                        prohibited.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-268                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

The term "device" in this context should be understood in N A.23.6.3.3.3.2 Life safety Class N network cabling, equipment,
conjunction with the definition of Device (Class N) 3.3.71 and                          and infrastructure might include (but is not limited to) Ether-
the associated annex material A.3.3.71.                                                 net switches, media converters, uninterruptible power supplies,
                                                                                        separate life safety network dedicated branch circuit power,
   A network-based audio amplifier is an example of an                                  cabling cross connects, and both copper and fiber cabling.
addressable device that can receive a digital audio input from
the Class N pathway and then provide a notification appliance N A.23.6.3.5.1 Regular inspection, testing, and maintenance are
circuit (NAC) output with Class A, B, or X pathways. Other                              conducted on life safety systems. In traditional systems a single
endpoint devices can similarly provide alternate class pathways                         certified entity was typically capable of servicing the fire alarm
for visual notification appliances (strobes) (NACs) or initiating                       control unit, transport equipment, and/or wiring associated
devices (IDCs). From the perspective of the Class N pathway,                            with it. Class N systems will often use modern network infra-
communications terminates at this endpoint device. However,                             structure that might fall outside the expertise of the life safety­
since these types of endpoints can support multiple notification                        certified entity, or other building systems could share the infra-
   appliance devices or initiating devices, Class N path segments                          structure used to create the Class N network. The property or
   are still subject to the redundant pathway requirement unless                           building or system owner or the owner's designated representa-
   protected in an enclosure or raceway less than 20 ft (6 m) in                           tive has responsibility to maintain a list of certified entities that
                                                                                           are capable of servicing and maintaining the life safety system
Y length. [See Figure A.12.3.6(1)(c).]                                                     and the Class N network. This is what NFPA 72 refers to as a
L N A.23.6.2.4 This clause is a consequence of the definition of                           management organization. For example, if the Class N network
                                                                                           runs through Ethernet switches and routers, the premises IT
   Class N, which permits a single pathway to be used when only                            infrastructure should be maintained by service personnel as
                                                                                           referenced in 10.5.3.3.
N one device is served. [See 12.3.6(1).] This exception to the                          N A.23.6.3.5.2 During inspection, testing, or maintenance it
                                                                                           could be necessary to temporarily disable or test part of a life
   requirement of redundant pathways allows for the loss of                                safety system. The management organization is responsible to
                                                                                           ensure that other affected entities are notified and action plans
O operational capability to a single device. Unplugging, ground-                           put in place to ensure appropriate life safety coverage is main-
                                                                                           tained and appropriate notification is given to other entities
   ing, or cutting any single Ethernet cable or conductor cannot                           such as the fire or security monitoring services.
                                                                                        N A.23.6.3.6.1 When shared pathway Level 1 or Level 2 is
E affect more than one Ethernet device and cannot affect addi-                             employed, care should be taken to ensure that the life safety
                                                                                           system(s) traffic has priority over other systems sharing the
   tional devices, Ethernet or otherwise, in the system.                                   Class N network to maintain the required bandwidth. Other
                                                                                           systems might have unspecified or unpredictable bandwidth
S N A.23.6.3.3 All shared pathways defined as Class N should be                            usage (such as a manually controlled security camera); there-
   documented, including all equipment connected to the shared                             fore, the analysis should specify the method(s) used to ensure
U pathways, interconnecting methods identifying required redun-                            the required life safety bandwidth is maintained under all
   dant communication pathways, end points, techniques used for                            circumstances. The network design analysis should show this
L proper supervision, and possible risk due to shared pathway                              and be signed by the property or building or system owner or
   failures. As an example, for wired Ethernet, the designer might                         the owner's designated representative responsible for the
A want to use cabling techniques identified in standards such as                           design for the authority having jurisdiction to review.
   ISO/IEC 14763-3, Informational technology -- Implementation and                      N A.23.6.3.6.2 Primary and backup power should meet the
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U operation of customer premises cabling -- Part 3: Testing of optical   requirements of NFPA 72. Life safety equipment and their
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} fibre cabling, to satisfy the requirements of the authority having   connected equipment (Class N transport devices when not
ID jurisdiction.                                                                           powered by the FACU) should utilize dedicated branch circuits
N A.23.6.3.3.1.2 Cable installations should be tested with appro-                          for primary power. This is to prevent other loads from tripping
                                                                                           a circuit breaker connected to the FACU and to prevent inad-
IV priate field test measurement equipment in accordance with                              vertent disconnecting of primary power to the FACU.

   applicable standards such as TIA 526, Standard Test Procedures for                         The branch circuit disconnecting means (circuit breakers)

D Fiber Optic Systems, or other standards acceptable to the author-

   ity having jurisdiction. For example, testing requirements for

IN Category 5 or higher balanced twisted-pair cabling should

   include the following:
   (1) Wire map (e.g., continuity, pairing)
   (2) Length

R (3) Insertion loss

   (4) NEXT loss

O (5) ACR-F (formerly called ELFEXT)
F(6) Propagation delay and delay skew
(7) Return loss                                                                         should be clearly labeled and made only accessible to author-
(8) Power sum near-end crosstalk (PSNEXT) loss
(9) PSACR-F (formerly called PSELFEXT)                                                  ized personnel.

   Testing requirements for optical fiber cabling should include                           FACUs are required to have a secondary power source that
the following:                                                                          must last for 24 hours of standby (nonalarm) power followed
                                                                                        by either 5 (non-voice systems) or 15 (voice systems) minutes of
                                                                                        alarm power. This is typically accomplished by backup batteries
(1) Attenuation                                                                         or by an emergency generator. All transport equipment not
(2) Optical bandwidth                                                                   powered by the FACU has the same requirement. The analysis
(3) Length
                                                                                        should document the calculation of all power requirements
N A.23.6.3.3.2 All ports need to be properly identified and                             (standby and alarm) of the FACU and transport equipment to
labeled. For example, Class N switches should be permanently
labeled "LIFE SAFETY EQUIPMENT ­ NO UNAUTHORIZED                                        ensure that the system can meet this requirement. To meet this
USE," or plugs should be used to prevent access.                                        requirement, non­life safety systems could be disconnected
                                                                                        from the secondary power source.

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                         ANNEX A                                                 72-269

N A.23.6.3.7.1 Maintenance is a critical aspect of fire alarm N A.23.6.3.8 Although this section outlines some specific criteria
systems, and a plan needs to be in place to empower continued                  and/or limitations, each application should be based on recog-
operation of the fire alarm system. Shared Class N pathways                    nized performance-based design practices and the emergency
present a unique concern in that non­fire alarm technicians                    response plan developed for the specific facility. Here are the
could perform maintenance or changes to the Class N equip-                     general categories of questions that might be presented to the
ment or pathways. For example, routine updates to software in                  stakeholders responsible for Class N shared network design
the routers and switches or upgrades to address new non­fire                   decisions. The actual questions for each project must be tail-
alarm needs. This could result in outages of the portions of the               ored to the area, the building, the campus, and the culture of
fire alarm system or affect the subsequent operation of the fire               the user organization and the nature of how the network is
alarm system. It is crucial that the maintenance plan address                  being shared. The requirements for the life safety network
policy and procedure to monitor, maintain, and test per Chap-                  should be evaluated with respect to the types of emergency
ter 14 and control change of the shared pathways to contribute                 events and emergency response plan. The potential impact of
   to continued intended operation of the fire alarm system. For               these events upon the life safety network also should be evalu-
   example, 14.4.2.5 states that changes to system executive soft-             ated.
   ware require a 10 percent functional test of the system, includ-            (1) What types of emergency events could affect the life safety

Y ing typical network infrastructure such as routers and switches                     network (e.g., fire, security, safety, health, environmental,
                                                                                      geological, meteorological, utility service disruption, or
   that now need consideration as part of the life safety network                     other types of events)?
                                                                               (2) What is the anticipated or expected severity of the emer-
L maintenance plan.                                                                   gency events, that is, how will they impact the facility and
N N A.23.6.3.7.2 Written procedures should address who can                            its functions? Are they expected to be extreme, severe,
                                                                                      and so forth?
   access the Class N network; how the procedures will be imple-               (3) What is the certainty of the emergency event, that is, is it
                                                                                      happening now, is it very likely to occur, is it likely to
O mented; the level of retesting of the system needed when soft-                      occur, is it possible that it will occur in the future, is it
                                                                                      unlikely to occur, or is its occurrence unknown?
   ware updates to the Class N network infrastructure such as                  (4) Natural hazards: What are the network risks to the imple-
   routers and switches are made; and the effect of changes on                        mentation of the emergency response plan in response to
                                                                                      natural hazard events? What are the types of emergency
E system response times to ensure required time limits are main-                      events that could be predicted to result from natural
                                                                                      hazard events? For example, if flooding is possible in the
   tained.                                                                            surrounding area, how would a flood affect the life safety
                                                                                      network while operating in its normal, monitored state?
S A.23.6.3.7.2(3) The planned impairment process is used to                           What would happen if a fire alarm occurred during a
U control change in the system and inform stakeholders. Any                           flood? How likely is it that a flood could damage the life
                                                                                      safety network? What related events might impact the life
   activities that can affect the performance of the network or                       safety network and equipment, such as a power outage?
                                                                               (5) Human caused: What are the network risks to the imple-
L impact conclusions of a risk analysis should be presented to the                    mentation of the emergency response plan in response to
                                                                                      accidents or intentional acts? What are the types of emer-
   organization referred to in 23.6.3.5 for approval. The organiza-                   gency events that could be predicted from both within
                                                                                      and outside the protected premises? What type of related
A tion should have a name (e.g., Life Safety Network Manage-                          damage might be expected to impact the life safety
                                                                                      network and equipment, such as explosions?
   ment Group). All stakeholders who could be affected by                      (6) Technological caused: What are the network risks to the
                                                                                      implementation of the emergency response plan in
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U network outages should have representation in the organiza-       response to technologically caused events or failures and
                                                                                      the types of emergency events that could be predicted to
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tion.                                                           result from a technologically caused event both within
                                                                                      and outside the protected premises. What type of related
 ID A committee made up of members of the organization

   should meet on a regular basis and report to the organization.

IV All planned impairments should have 7 days' notice. An emer-

   gency impairment (one with less than 7 days' notice) should
   meet very stringent standards for urgency. Outages and repair

D operations are dealt with on a case by case basis with the fire

   marshal's office, and the Department of Public Safety is inclu-

IN ded based on the operational impact.
      All proposed changes and outages are to be presented to the
   organization for authorization, scheduling, and coordination.

R Once a change has been authorized and scheduled, an impair-

   ment notification is issued notifying all affected users. If

Ospecific mitigation actions, such as fire watch, are required,
Fthey are to be included in the impairment notification.
   Impairment notifications are issued through the fire                               damage might be expected to impact the life safety
marshal's office, the Department of Public Safety, the Power                          network and equipment, such as a network attack?
Outages Group, or other groups depending on the systems                        (7) Network maintenance risks: What are the network risks to
affected.                                                                             the implementation of the emergency response plan in
                                                                                      response to a degradation of network software perform-
                                                                               ance (e.g., an unintended degradation of performance
   A "login banner" is a programmable option for network                       due to software updates) or a degradation of physical
switches and routers. This banner is the first thing that comes                network performance or implementation (e.g., physical
up on the screen when you log into the equipment. Where
practical, network equipment used in life safety systems should                damage, system modifications)? What types of emergency
have a login banner to notify service personnel that the                       events could be predicted to result from a degradation of
network is a part of an active life safety system and any impair-              the life safety network? What type of related impairments
                                                                               might be expected to impact the components of the life
ment should be coordinated with the named organization.                        safety network and equipment, such as environmental

                                                                               controls?

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-270                                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

The questions suggested in items (1) through (7) are                                For the first time, NFPA 72 introduces the use of the
offered for consideration, and not all of them might be appro-                      common PC workstation technology having the UL listing for
priate for every life safety network installation.                                  "shock and hazard" to be a part of the total building system
                                                                                    without the UL 864 listing, which was a hindrance to the
A.23.8.1.1 A system provided with an alarm verification                             advancements in technologies.
feature as permitted by 23.8.5.4.1 is not considered a presignal
system, since the delay in the signal produced is 60 seconds or N A.23.8.4.2.2.2 When the BSIU is not available to control the
less and requires no human intervention.                                            fire alarm system, the FACU within the room must be able to
                                                                                    perform all the necessary controls of the fire alarm system with-
A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6) "Immediately actuated" means there are no                         out relying on the BSIU.
delays imposed by the system other than the processing of the
signal in accordance with 23.8.1.1.                                                 A.23.8.4.4 For systems such as carbon monoxide detection,
                                                                                    fire extinguisher electronic monitoring device, emergency
   A.23.8.1.2.1.2 The bypass means is intended to enable auto-                      communications (mass notification), or intrusion, much of the
   matic or manual day, night, and weekend operation.                               benefit of a combination system comes from being able to use
   A.23.8.2 This Code addresses field installations that intercon-                  common wiring. If the equipment in the combination system is
                                                                                    of equivalent quality to fire alarm equipment, and the system
Y nect two or more listed control units, possibly from different                    monitors the wiring and equipment in the same way as fire
L manufacturers, that together fulfill the requirements of this                     alarm equipment, then sharing of wiring is permitted. If the
                                                                                    equipment is not of equivalent quality, isolation between the
   Code.                                                                            systems would be required.
                                                                                    A.23.8.4.7 Examples of signal classification are provided in
 N Such an arrangement should preserve the reliability,                             Table A.23.8.4.7. This is not all-inclusive or prescriptive but is
                                                                                    meant to illustrate a potential classification scheme. Actual
   adequacy, and integrity of all alarm, supervisory, and trouble                   schemes might vary depending upon the emergency response
                                                                                    plan and/or requirements of the authority having jurisdiction.
O signals and interconnecting circuits intended to be in accord-                    Mass notification systems are allowed to take priority over the
                                                                                    fire alarm audible notification message or signal. This is inten-
   ance with the provisions of this Code.                                           ded to allow the mass notification system to prioritize emer-
                                                                                    gency signals on the basis of risk to building occupants. The
 E Where interconnected control units are in separate build-                        designer should specify the desired operation, in particular, as
                                                                                    to what should occur immediately after the mass notification
   ings, consideration should be given to protecting the intercon-                  message has completed.
                                                                                    A.23.8.4.9 See NFPA 720 for more information.
S necting wiring from electrical and radio frequency                                A.23.8.4.9.2 Response to carbon monoxide alarm signals
                                                                                    could include, but not be limited to, any one of the following:
   interference.                                                                    immediate evacuation of occupants, immediate call to the fire
                                                                                    department or other responding authorities, relocation of
U A.23.8.2.7.4 Where interconnected fire alarm control units                        occupants to another portion of the building, investigation of
L have unsupervised form C contacts that change status during a                     the area identified, and/or opening of all doors and windows
                                                                                    to the outside in the area identified.
   trouble condition, annunciators installed at each control unit                   A.23.8.4.10 See NFPA 10 for more information on portable
                                                                                    fire extinguishers.
A provide status indication.                                                        A.23.8.5.1.2 The manual means required by 23.8.5.1.2 is
                                                                                    intended to provide a backup means to manually actuate the
   A.23.8.4.1 The provisions of 23.8.4.1 apply to types of equip-                   fire alarm system when the automatic fire detection system or
                                                                                    waterflow devices are out of service due to maintenance or test-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ment used in common for fire alarm systems, such as fire

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} alarm, sprinkler supervisory, or guard's tour service, and for

ID other systems, such as burglar alarm or coded paging systems,

   and to methods of circuit wiring common to both types of

IV systems. The intent of connecting non-fire systems with the fire

   alarm system is often to cause the non-fire systems to react
   appropriately when signaled by the fire alarm system.

D N A.23.8.4.2.1 Buildings are advancing with technologies in
IN HVAC, security, elevators, energy controls, and lighting. Build-

   ing operators and designers expect to be able to integrate vari-
   ous building systems with human interfaces.

 R First responders are embracing new technologies, and the

   fire life safety systems have a lot of information to assist them in

FO emergency response and also system evaluation.
Table A.23.8.4.7 Examples of Signal Classification

          Life Safety      Property Protection            Trouble                       Other
Fire alarm signals           Security signals          Battery fault                HVAC signals
Carbon monoxide alarm                               AC power failure                 Occupancy
                           Supervisory signals
  signals                                               IDC faults
Code blue signals             Access control            NAC faults
Panic alarms                                            SLC faults
Hazmat signals
Severe weather warnings
Flood alarms
Mass notification signals
Holdup alarm signals

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                ANNEX A                                                          72-271

ing, or where human discovery of the fire precedes automatic                       (6) Engine-driven fire pumps, including running (alarm or
sprinkler system or automatic detection system activation.                                supervisory), failure to start, controller off "automatic,"
                                                                                          and trouble (e.g., low oil, high temperature, overspeed)
   The manual fire alarm box required by 23.8.5.1.2 should be
connected to a separate circuit that is not placed "on test"                       (7) Steam turbine fire pumps, including running (alarm or
when the detection or sprinkler system is placed "on test." The                           supervisory), steam pressure, and steam control valves
manual means is only intended for use by the system technician
or the building owner and should be located by the sprinkler                       A.23.8.5.6.3 Circuits connected to a signaling line circuit
riser or fire alarm control unit.                                                  interface are initiating device circuits and are subject to these
                                                                                   limitations.

A.23.8.5.3.2 Where power is supplied separately to the individ-                    A.23.8.5.6.4 Some ball valves installed on air pressure lines
ual initiating device(s), multiple initiating circuits are not                     connected to a pressure switch for dry pipe sprinkler systems or
prohibited from being monitored for integrity by a single                          certain types of preaction sprinkler systems will cause the air
   power supervision device.                                                          pressure that is trapped in the line between the valve and the
   A.23.8.5.4.1 The alarm verification feature should not be used                     supervisory signal initiating device to bleed off when the valve
   as a substitute for proper detector location/applications or                       is turned to isolate the initiating device. This will cause the
                                                                                      initiating device to operate and signal the low air supervisory
Y regular system maintenance. Alarm verification features are                         condition. The arrangement is permitted by other standards
L intended to reduce the frequency of false alarms caused by                          and provides a fail-safe way to test a low air pressure signal with-
                                                                                      out risking activation of the system.
   transient conditions. They are not intended to compensate for                      A.23.8.5.8 See A.23.8.5.6.
                                                                                      A.23.8.6.2 The general purpose of the fire alarm audible and
N design errors or lack of maintenance.                                               visual notification appliances is to alert occupants that there is
                                                                                      a fire condition and for occupants to exit from the building.
   A.23.8.5.4.6.3 Where a separate power source is provided for a
                                                                                          Once the occupants are in the exit enclosures, high noise
O duct smoke detector, consideration should be given to provide                       levels and light intensity from notification appliances could
                                                                                      cause confusion and impede egress. There could be conditions
   a secondary power source for the duct detector power source as                     that warrant the installation of notification appliances in exit
                                                                                      passageways, but careful analysis is necessary to avoid impeding
E a power failure to the duct detector will (or should) indicate a                    exiting from the building.
                                                                                   N A.23.8.6.3.3 The building's emergency response plan might
   trouble condition on the fire panel. If the system is connected                    specify occupant notification only in the area(s) of initiation
                                                                                      and at the control panel. Whole building evacuation might not
S to an off-premises monitoring station, a trouble signal will be                     be specified in the emergency response plan.
                                                                                    A.23.10.2 One or more of the following means might be
   sent immediately upon power failure. This is in contrast to the                    considered acceptable to provide a level of survivability consis-
                                                                                      tent with the intent of this requirement:
U intent and requirements to delay the off-premises reporting of                      (1) Installing a fire alarm system in a fully sprinklered build-

   primary power failures.                                                                    ing in accordance with NFPA 13
                                                                                      (2) Routing notification appliance circuits separately
L A.23.8.5.5 This Code does not specifically require a waterflow                      (3) Using short-circuit fault-tolerant signaling line circuits for

   alarm initiating device to be connected to the building fire                               controlling evacuation signals
                                                                                          The requirement for notification appliances to operate in
A alarm system. Connection to the building fire alarm system                          those notification zones that are not attacked by fire will also
                                                                                      require that circuits and equipment that are common to more
   would be determined by the requirements established by the                         than one signaling zone be designed and installed such that
                                                                                      the fire will not disable them. For instance, a signaling line
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U authority having jurisdiction. See A.1.2.4.                       circuit used to control notification appliances in multiple noti-
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.23.8.5.5.3 Circuits connected to a signaling line circuit   fication zones should be properly designed and installed so
                                                                                      that one fire would not impair more than one notification
   interface are initiating device circuits and are subject to these

IV limitations.

   A.23.8.5.6 This Code does not specifically require supervisory
   signal initiating devices to be connected to the building fire

D alarm system. Connections to the building fire alarm system

   would be determined by the requirements established by the

IN authority having jurisdiction. See A.1.2.4. Some systems utilize

   nonelectrical methods to supervise conditions of the system
   such as chains on sprinkler control valves.

 R Supervisory signals are not intended to provide indication of

   design, installation, or functional defects in the supervised

Osystems or system components and are not a substitute for regu-
Flar testing of those systems in accordance with the applicable

   standard. Supervised conditions should include, but not be
   limited to, the following:

(1) Control valves 112 in. (38.1 mm) or larger                                     zone. Power supply requirements of Chapter 10 apply to these
(2) Pressure, including dry pipe system air, pressure tank air,                    systems. The secondary power supply requirements of that
preaction system supervisory air, steam for flooding                               chapter meet the intent of these survivability requirements.
       systems, and public water
(3) Water tanks, including water level and temperature                             A.23.11.7 Automatic fire suppression systems referred to in
(4) Building temperature, including areas such as valve closet                     23.11.7 include, but are not limited to, preaction and deluge
                                                                                   sprinkler systems, carbon dioxide systems, Halon systems, and
       and fire pump house                                                         dry chemical systems.
(5) Electric fire pumps, including running (alarm or supervi-
sory), power failure, and phase reversal
                                                                                   A.23.12.4 Off-site logging of fire alarm data can be useful to
                                                                                   preserve information in the face of fire or building failure to
                                                                                   facilitate accurate reconstruction of the event. It can also be

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-272                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

beneficial to send data off-premises to incident command N A.23.16.3.1.5 Trouble and supervisory signals are not required
personnel to enhance situational awareness and response deci-   to latch. Self-restoring trouble and supervisory signals are
sions and to maintain safe and efficient operations. Figure     acceptable.
A.23.12.4 shows an example of a network to accomplish these
goals.                                                          A.24.1.2 An emergency communications system could target
                                                                the general building, area, space, campus, or region.
A.23.16 The term wireless has been replaced with the term low-
power radio to eliminate potential confusion with other trans-  A.24.3.1.1 In certain situations, it is important to provide a
mission media such as optical fiber cables.                     distributed sound level with minimal sound intensity variations
                                                                to achieve an intelligible voice message. This differs from past
Low-power radio devices are required to comply with the         fire alarm design practice that used fewer notification applian-
applicable low-power requirements of Title 47, Code of Federal  ces but with each having greater sound pressure output levels.
Regulations, Part 15.                                           Nonemergency system design practice is to use more loud-
                                                                speakers and less sound intensity from each loudspeaker.
                                                                Besides improving intelligibility of the message, this approach
                                                                minimizes annoyance to building occupants from the system
                                                                and lessens the likelihood of tampering with the system by
                                                                occupants because of loudspeakers being too loud. In other
                                                                applications, such as outdoor signaling where reverberation is
                                                                not a problem, intelligibility can be achieved by using fewer
                                                                appliances or clusters of appliances covering larger areas.

                                                                   Intelligibility is a complex function of the source audio, the
                                                                acoustic response of the architectural features and materials of
                                                                the immediate vicinity, and the dynamics created by the room's
                                                                occupants. Refer to Annex D for more information on speech
                                                                intelligibility and how it is predicted. Spacing loudspeakers
                                                                closely can be an intelligibility-enhancing technique but can
                                                                occasionally lead to opposite results when improperly
                                                                designed. There are several techniques using directionality
                                                                features that do not use closely spaced loudspeakers but rather
                                                                use the room/space acoustic response in their favor.
   A.23.16.1 Equipment listed solely for dwelling unit use would
   not comply with this requirement.

Y A.23.16.2 This requirement is intended to limit the impact
L from the failure of a battery operated receiver/transmitter in a

   given space. This requirement is not intended to prevent a

N single device that contains multiple function elements, such as

   a combination carbon monoxide and smoke detector, a detec-
   tor with an independently controllable sounder, a notification

O appliance with visible and audible elements, and so forth. This

   requirement is intended to limit the number of functional

E elements to one of each independent type. For example, two

   manual fire alarm boxes could not rely on a single battery.

S A.23.16.3.1 This requirement is not intended to preclude veri-
U fication and local test intervals prior to alarm transmission.

N· A.23.16.3.1.3 This requirement ensures that an alarm is

L received in the rare event that the RF channel experiences

   interference.
{C56A4DC7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} Computer 1
                       Ethernet                                       To listed
                                                                     monitoring
                                 Ethernet
                                  To FACU                       Fire alarm
                       IN Ethernet                              control unit

                                                                  brand X

FOREthernet                                                      To listed
                                                                monitoring

                       Ethernet network

Computer 2                       Ethernet                       Fire alarm
                                                                control unit

                                                                  brand Y

                                                   To listed
                                                  monitoring

        Handheld                           Fire alarm
                                           control unit

                                             brand Z

FIGURE A.23.12.4 Supplemental Reporting Network.

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX A                                                                                                          72-273

A.24.3.1.2 In certain acoustically challenging areas, listed fire                   system and employee discipline. Access to amplification equip-
alarm loudspeakers might not be capable of producing an                             ment and controls should be limited to those authorized to
intelligible message. Non­fire alarm listed loudspeakers are                        make adjustments to such equipment. It is common practice to
permitted to be installed in these limited areas. A failure of a                    install such equipment in a manner that allows adjustment of
non-listed loudspeaker should not disrupt the operation of                          non-emergency audio signal levels while defaulting to a fixed,
listed fire alarm loudspeakers and operation of the fire alarm                      preset level of playback when operating in emergency mode.
or mass notification control equipment. Typically, a dedicated                      Under extreme circumstances, certain zones of a protected
loudspeaker circuit and other audio components such as                              area might require a dedicated in-building fire emergency
amplifiers could be necessary to meet this functionality.                           voice/alarm communications zone.

 A.24.3.2 Users who speak too softly, too loudly, or who hold a                     A.24.3.6.1 See Annex G.
microphone too close, too far, or at an incorrect angle can
introduce distortion or cause reduced intelligibility of the                        A.24.3.6.2 See Annex G.

   spoken message. The characteristics of the system microphone                     A.24.3.6.3 See Annex G.
   are important ergonomic factors that affect voice intelligibility.               A.24.3.7 One-way emergency communications systems are
   Some microphones need to be held close to the mouth,                             intended to broadcast information, in an emergency, to person-
                                                                                    nel in one or more specified indoor or outdoor areas. It is
Y perhaps an inch or less. Others need to be three or four inches                   intended that emergency messages be conveyed either by audi-
L away. How is the user to know what's ideal? A simple diagram                      ble or visual textual means or both. This section does not apply
                                                                                    to bells, horns, or other sounders and visual notification appli-
   next to the microphone can help. Some microphones are very                       ances, except where used in conjunction with the desired oper-
                                                                                    ation of emergency messages and signaling.
N directional and must be held flat in front of the mouth. These
                                                                                       Two-way emergency communications systems are divided
   microphones are useful in small command centers, since they                      into two categories, those systems that are anticipated to be
                                                                                    used by building occupants and those systems that are to be
O are less likely to pick up conversations off to the sides. On the                 used by fire fighters, police, and other emergency services
                                                                                    personnel. Two-way emergency communications systems are
   other hand, microphones with a wider polar sensitivity are                       used both to exchange information and to communicate infor-
   more forgiving for a user to hold comfortably while moving                       mation, such as, but not limited to, instructions, acknowledge-
                                                                                    ment of receipt of messages, condition of local environment,
E and doing other tasks. Their downside is that they will pick up                   and condition of persons, and to give assurance that help is on
                                                                                    its way.
   extraneous noise in poorly designed command centers intro-
                                                                                       NFPA 72 contains requirements that can impact the applica-
S duced into the microphone.                                                        tion of emergency communications systems. For instance, coor-
U A.24.3.3 The requirements found in NFPA 70 Article 708,                           dination of the functions of an emergency communications
                                                                                    system with other systems that communicate audibly and/or
   should be considered for emergency communications systems                        visibly [such as fire alarm systems, security systems, public
                                                                                    address (PA) systems] is essential in order to provide effective
L that are installed in vital infrastructure facilities classified as a             communication in an emergency situation. Conflicting or
                                                                                    competing signals or messages from different systems could be
   designated critical operations area (DCOA). This includes                        very confusing to occupants and have a negative impact on the
                                                                                    intended occupant response. Where independent systems
A facilities that, if destroyed or incapacitated, would disrupt                     using audible and/or visual notification are present, the emer-
                                                                                    gency communications system needs to interface with those
   national security, the economy, public health or safety and                      systems to effect related control actions such as deactivating
                                                                                    both audible and visual notification appliances. The use of a
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U where enhanced electrical infrastructure for continuity of oper-single integrated combination system might offer both
                                                                                    economic and technical advantages. In any case, coordination
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ation has been deemed necessary by governmental authority.    between system functions is essential. The coordination of

ID A.24.3.4 The features for a nonrequired system should be

   established by the system designer on the basis of the goals and

IV objectives intended by the system owner.

   A.24.3.5.2 Dedicated in-building fire emergency voice/alarm

D communications systems are not required to monitor the integ-

   rity of the notification appliance circuits while active for emer-

IN gency purposes. However, these circuits have to be monitored

   for integrity while active for non-emergency purposes. The
   building operator, system designer, and authority having juris-
   diction should be aware that, in some situations, such a system

R could be subject to deliberate tampering. Tampering is usually

   attempted to reduce the output of a sound system that is in

Oconstant use, such as background music or a paging system,
Fand that could be a source of annoyance to employees.
   The likelihood of tampering can be reduced through proper                        emergency communications systems with other systems should
consideration of loudspeaker accessibility and system opera-                        be considered part of the risk analysis for the emergency
tion.                                                                               communications system. (See Figure A.24.3.7.)

   Access can be reduced through the use of hidden or                    Additional documents such as ANSI/NEMA Standard SB-40,
nonadjustable transformer taps (which can reduce playback             Communications Systems for Life Safety in Schools, can also be used
levels), use of vandal-resistant listed loudspeakers, and place-      as supplemental resources to provide help with risk assessment
ment in areas that are difficult to access, such as high ceilings     and application considerations.
(any ceiling higher than could be reached by standing on a         N A.24.3.7.1 Other codes reference NFPA 72 with respect to the
desk or chair). Non-emergency operation of the system should          emergency voice alarm communications (EVAC) systems or
always consider that an audio system that annoys an employee          design and installation requirements. If EVAC systems are
potentially reduces employee productivity and can also annoy          required, they are also required to be listed per UL 864, Stand-
the public in a commercial environment. Most motivations for          ard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm Systems.
tampering can be eliminated through appropriate use of the            However, owners or designers might identify risks in addition

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-274                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                   Emergency communications
                                           systems (ECS)
                                              Chapter 24

One-way                                Two-way            Info command   Performance-
  ECS                              in-building ECS          and control  based design
                                                                         Section 24.12
                                                          Section 24.11

In-building fire                   Two-way wired

        EVACS                      emergency

Section 24.4                       services ECS

                                   Section 24.8
  In-building
      MNS          Combination     Two-way radio
                      systems      enhancement
 Section 24.5
                  Interfaces with       system
Y Wide-area             MNS         Section 24.9
      MNS
                   PA systems      Area of refuge
L Section 24.6    used for MNS           ECS
N Distributed
                                   Section 24.10
recipient MNS
                                   Stairway ECS
O Section 24.7                     Section 24.10
                                      Elevator

                                   E Landing ECS

                                   Section 24.10
                                   S Occupant

                                    Evacuation

                                   U Elevator

                                    Lobby ECS

                                   L Section 24.10
A  FIGURE A.24.3.7 Emergency Communications Systems.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U to fire that might also require additional emergency communi-

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} cations systems such as in-building mass notification system

ID (MNS), wide-area MNS, or distributed recipient MNS. If an

MNS is included in the design, a risk analysis is required by

IV 24.3.12. In consideration of the risk analysis, related design

could include combinations of the emergency communications
systems options presented in 24.3.7.1. For example, depending

D on the specifics of the facility under consideration, the design

could include combination systems or other combinations of

IN separate EVAC UL 864 and equipment listed per UL 2572,

Mass Notification Systems, as long as these systems are inter-
faced in compliance with Chapter 24 and are approved by the
AHJ.

R A.24.3.8 The layers can be used in combination. In all cases,
O the system design needs to follow the risk analysis and be inte-

grated into the emergency response plan. Research has shown

Fthat more than one layer has been used to be effective. Multi-

ple layers provide an extra level of notification (a safety net).
The overall MNS application is likely to exploit a number of
                                                             (6) Textual/digital signage/displays
                                                                Layer 2 could consist of elements such as the following:

                                                             (1) Wide-area outdoor MNS
                                                             (2) High power loudspeaker arrays (HPLAs)

                                                                Layer 3 could consist of elements such as the following:
                                                             (1) Short message service (SMS)
                                                             (2) Email
                                                             (3) Computer pop-ups
                                                             (4) Smartphone applications (apps)
                                                             (5) Reverse 911/automated dialing

                                                                Layer 4 could consist of elements such as the following:
                                                             (1) Radio broadcast (satellite, AM/FM)
                                                             (2) Television broadcast (satellite, digital)
                                                             (3) Location specific messages/notifications
                                                             (4) Weather radios
                                                             (5) Social networks

public and individual systems or components that combine to              Also see Optimizing Fire Alarm Notification for High Risk Groups
produce a reliable and robust solution to achieve emergency  research project.
notification objectives.
                                                             A.24.3.9 The design documents might include, but are not
Layer 1 could consist of elements such as the following:     limited to, shop drawings, input/output matrix, battery calcula-
                                                             tions, notification appliance voltage drop and wattage calcula-
(1) Emergency voice/alarm communications            systems  tions for visual notification appliances and loudspeakers, and
       (EVACS)                                               product data sheets.

(2) In-building mass notification system (MNS)
(3) One-way voice communication systems (PA)
(4) Two-way voice communication systems                      A.24.3.10 Fire emergency voice/alarm communications
(5) Visual notification appliances                           systems (EVACS) that are listed in accordance with ANSI/
                                                             UL 864, Standard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire Alarm

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        ANNEX A                                                  72-275

Systems, can be used for MNS. A control unit only listed in                        (6) What zone or areas should receive the emergency
accordance with ANSI/UL 2572, Mass Notification Systems,                           message(s) -- that is, is it a floor of a building, multiple
cannot be used as a fire alarm control unit.                                       floors of a building, the entire building, multiple build-
                                                                                          ings, a campus of buildings, an entire town or city, an
A.24.3.12 There are many credible risk assessment methodol-                               entire state, an entire region of states, or an entire coun-
ogies that can be utilized and/or referenced in conducting the                            try?
risk assessment required in 24.3.12, some of which are listed as                   (7) What is the validity of the emergency event -- that is, has
follows:                                                                                  the emergency event been investigated and/or

(1) CARVER -- Target Analysis and Vulnerability Assessment                         confirmed?
Methodology, Washington, DC: U.S. Department of                   (8) What instructions should we send to our personnel --
Defense (see Field Manual 34-36, Special Operation                                 that is, should they evacuate the facility, should they
Forces Intelligence and Electronics Warfare Operation,                             shelter-in-place, should they shelter-in-place at a special
          Sept. 30, 1991), www.defense.gov                                                location, should they proceed to a safe haven area, and
   (2) General Security Risk Assessment Guidelines. Alexandria, VA:                       other action oriented items?
                                                                                   (9) Are there any special instructions, procedures, or special
          American Society for Industrial Security International,                         tasks that we need to remind personnel about or to
                                                                                          accomplish -- that is, close your office door, open your
  Y www.asisonline.org                                                                    office door, stay away from windows, do not use elevators,
                                                                                          and other information relating to personnel actions?
   (3) NFPA 1600 Quincy, MA: National Fire Protection Associa-
                                                                                      The questions suggested in items (1) through (9) are
  L tion, www.nfpa.org                                                             offered for consideration, and not all of them might be appro-
                                                                                   priate for every mass notification system installation. It is
   (4) NFPA 730 Quincy, MA: National Fire Protection Associa-                      important to remember that when an emergency event occurs,
                                                                                   the response must be immediate and deliberate. Therefore,
  N tion, www.nfpa.org                                                             there is no time for indecision. So the questions selected to
                                                                                   reside in the emergency messaging decision tree illustrated in
   (5) Responsible Care Code, Washington, DC: American Chemis-                     items (1) through (9) must be straightforward and as simple as
                                                                                   possible. They must also be tailored to the specific organiza-
  O try Council, www.americanchemistry.com                                         tion, culture, site, and unique requirements of each local envi-
                                                                                   ronment.
   (6) Risk and Resilience Management of Water & Wastewater
          Systems, Denver, CO: American Water Works Association,                   A.24.3.13 The emergency response plan should include, but
                                                                                   not be limited to, the following elements:
  E www.awwa.org                                                                   (1) Emergency response team structure
S (7) VAMCAP® Vulnerability Assessment Methodology for Critical                    (2) Emergency response procedures, as follows:

          Asset Protection, Wilmington, DE: SafePlace Corporation,                        (a) Building system related emergencies
                                                                                          (b) Human-related emergencies
  U www.safeplace.com                                                                     (c) Terrorism-related emergencies
                                                                                          (d) Weather-related emergencies
   (8) Vulnerability Assessment Methodologies, Albuquerque, NM:                    (3) Emergency response equipment and operations
          Sandia National Laboratories, www.sandia.gov                             (4) Emergency response notification, as follows:
                                                                                          (a) Emergency message content
 L Refer to A.7.8.2(1) and Figure A.7.3.6 for a risk analysis                             (b) Emergency notification approval process
A checklist.                                                                              (c) Emergency notification initiation process
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.24.3.12.1 Although this chapter outlines some specific crite-(5) Emergency response training and drills, as follows:
                                                                                          (a) Classroom training
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ria and/or limitations, each application should be based on         (b) Table-top training
                                                                                          (c) Live drills
ID recognized performance-based design practices and the emer-
                                                                                   A.24.3.14.3 This section is not meant to preclude a
   gency response plan developed for the specific facility.

 IV Here are the general categories of questions that might be

   presented to the senior manager responsible for mass notifica-
   tion decisions. The actual questions for each project must be

D tailored to the area, the building, the campus, and the culture

   of the user organization. Following is a brief description of

IN potential content within the mass notification event questions:

   (1) What is the type of emergency event -- that is, is it fire,
          security, safety, health, environmental, geological, mete-

  R orological, utility service disruption, or another type of

          event?

O(2) What is the urgency of the emergency event -- that is,
          does it represent immediate danger, has it already occur-

F red, is it expected to occur soon, is it expected to occur in
the future, or is its occurrence unknown?                                          performance-based pathway survivability approach. As with
(3) What is the anticipated or expected severity of the emer-
gency event that is, how will it impact our facility and its                       most performance-based approaches, documentation should
                                                                                   be provided by the designer and maintained with system docu-
functions, is it expected to be extreme, severe, etc.?                             mentation for the life of the system. Written documentation of
(4) What is the certainty of the emergency event that is, is it
happening now, is it very likely to occur, is it likely to                         the approval from the authority having jurisdiction should also
                                                                                   be maintained. A performance-based approach to pathway
occur, is it possible that it will occur in the future, is it                      survivability could be equivalent to, less stringent than, or more
unlikely to occur, or is its occurrence unknown?
(5) What is the location of the event, or from what direction                      stringent than the prescriptive approach in 24.3.14. Often a
                                                                                   performance-based approach will result from a risk analysis.
is the emergency event approaching -- that is, has it or
will it be approaching from the north, south, east, or                             This section is also not meant to preclude less stringent path-
                                                                                   way survivability requirements supported by a risk analysis for
west?                                                             those unique occupancies that employ emergency voice alarm/

                                                                                   emergency communication systems for relocation or partial

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-276        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

evacuation as part of their fire safety plan where relocation or                   In an ADS that is a non-acoustically challenging area, design-
partial evacuation could be readily superseded by total evacua-                    ing for audibility will typically result in an intelligible system
tion and where buildings are of a type other than Type I or                        provided minimum loudspeaker guidelines are followed. Areas
Type II (222) construction where the pathway survivability                         typically considered to be non-acoustically challenging include
performance requirement does not need to be for two hours.                         traditional office environments, hotel guest rooms, dwelling
Examples include low-rise education and day-care occupancies,                      units, and spaces with carpeting and furnishings.
nursing homes, ambulatory health care occupancies, hotel and
dormitory occupancies, and residential board and care occu-          Special attention must be given to acoustically challenging
pancies.                                                          ADSs. Such areas might incorporate appreciable hard surfaces
                                                                  (e.g., glass, marble, tile, metal, etc) or appreciably high ceilings
Refer to Annex F for previous nomenclature and cross-                              (e.g., atriums, multiple ceiling heights). These conditions will
reference.                                                        require more stringent design guidelines to ensure intelligibil-
· A.24.3.14.9 Although in some instances areas of refuge (areas                    ity (e.g., a closer than normal loudspeaker spacing with lower
  of rescue assistance) might be installed in buildings that use                   taps). This can help reduce the effect of excessive reverbera-
  general evacuation and not relocation/partial evacuation, it is                  tion and result in better intelligibility. In extreme cases there
                                                                                   could be areas where intelligibility is not attainable, but this
Y still crucial that people awaiting assistance can communicate                    can be acceptable if there is an ADS within 30 ft (9.1 m) where
                                                                                   the intelligibility of the system is deemed adequate.
  with emergency responders to facilitate their evacuation. Thus,
                                                                                      In an ADS where the ambient noise level exceeds 85 dB it is
L their evacuation time might be prolonged, and therefore the                      acknowledged that intelligibility might not be attainable and an
                                                                                   alternate means of notification is required.
  emergency communications systems should be capable of oper-
                                                                                      Design guidance is provided in the NEMA Standards Publi-
N ating reliably during a fire incident.                                           cation SB 50-2008, Emergency Communications Audio Intelligibility
O A.24.4 Where used, recorded voice messages for fire emer-                        Applications Guide.
                                                                                   A.24.4.4.2 The intent of this low frequency tone is to accom-
  gency alarm systems should be prepared in accordance with                        modate those with mild to severe hearing loss. See also 18.4.6,
  this Code by persons who are experienced with the operation                      A.18.4.6.1, and A.29.5.10.2. The effective date listed in Chap-
                                                                                   ter 18 for using a low frequency signal has not been allowed in
E of building fire emergency alarm systems and are knowledgea-                     24.4.4 because voice systems are easily adapted to comply,
                                                                                   whereas the requirements of 18.4.6 also apply to stand-alone
  ble of the building's construction, layout, and fire protection                  tone signaling appliances.
                                                                                   A.24.4.4.3 Sleeping accommodations are provided in occu-
S plan, including evacuation procedures. The proposed voice                        pancies such as healthcare, detention and correction, and
                                                                                   other occupancies where it would not be necessary to utilize a
  messages should be approved by the authority having jurisdic-                    low frequency tone that awakens those sleeping. For example,
                                                                                   in a hospital, the voice message is used to notify staff members
U tion prior to being implemented. Persons who record the                          who are already awake. The staff will then respond to the
                                                                                   appropriate location in the hospital to carry out their duties
  messages for fire emergency alarm systems should be able to                      that could include awakening and relocating patients who
                                                                                   could be in danger. In addition, fire drills are required to be
L read and speak the language used for the message clearly,                        conducted on a regular basis and providing a low frequency
                                                                                   tone could unnecessarily awaken patients, which would be
  concisely, and without an accent that would have an adverse                      detrimental to their care.
                                                                                   A.24.4.5.1 The choice of the location(s) for the in-building
A effect on intelligibility.                                                       fire emergency voice/alarm communications control equip-
 {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U It is not the intention that in-building fire emergency voice/ment should also take into consideration the ability of the fire
                                                                                   alarm system to operate and function during any probable
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} alarm communications service be limited to English-speaking  single event. Although NFPA 72 does not regulate either build-
                                                                                   ing construction or contents, system designers should consider
ID populations. Emergency messages should be provided in the                       the potential for an event that could damage the equipment,
                                                                                   including remotely located control devices, to disable the
  language of the predominant building population. If there is a                   system or a portion thereof. Where practical, it is prudent to
  possibility of isolated groups that do not speak the predomi-                    minimize unnecessary fire exposures of fire alarm control
                                                                                   equipment through the use of fire-rated construction or enclo-
IV nant language, multilingual messages should be provided. It is                  sures, by limiting adjacent combustibles and ignition sources,
                                                                                   or other appropriate means.
  expected that small groups of transients unfamiliar with the

D predominant language will be picked up in the traffic flow in

  the event of an emergency and are not likely to be in an isola-

IN ted situation.

  A.24.4.2.2.2 Generally speaking, in a standard building config-
  uration with normal ceiling height [8 ft to 12 ft (2.4 m to

R 3.7 m)], normal ceiling construction (e.g., drop acoustical ceil-

  ing tiles), standard wall configurations, and finishes and carpe-
  ted floors, ceiling-mounted loudspeakers should be installed in

O all normally occupiable spaces and in corridors spaced at a
Fmaximum of twice the ceiling height or as determined by a

  commercially available computer acoustical/loudspeaker
  modeling program. Where wall-mounted loudspeakers are
  used, manufacturer recommendations should be reviewed
  and/or computer modeling should be employed. One of the
  goals of loudspeaker placement is to provide the shortest prac-
  tical distance from the source (loudspeaker) to the recipient
  (person hearing the signal). In many applications, a combina-
  tion of wall- and ceiling-mounted loudspeakers might be
required. The audibility and intelligibility of the loudspeakers
can be impacted by the tap/setting at which the loudspeaker is                     A.24.4.6.1 Loudspeakers located in the vicinity of the in-
                                                                                   building fire emergency voice/alarm communications control
connected and should meet the audibility requirements of the                       equipment or MNS equipment should be arranged so they do
Code while still having the message intelligible. Connecting to                    not cause audio feedback when the system microphone is used.
a high setting to meet the audibility requirements of the Code                     Loudspeakers installed in the area of two-way telephone
could distort the intelligibility of the signal.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                ANNEX A                                                                                    72-277

stations should be arranged so that the sound pressure level        area, say so: "A fire has been reported in the area. For your
emitted does not preclude the effective use of the two-way tele-                   safety, use the stairs to evacuate the area immediately." A bad
phone system. Circuits for loudspeakers and telephones should                      example is: "The signal tone you have just heard indicated a
be separated, shielded, or otherwise arranged to prevent audio                     report of an emergency. If your floor evacuation signal sounds
cross-talk between circuits.                                                       after this message, do not use the elevator, walk to the nearest
                                                                                   stairway and leave the floor. While the report is being verified,
   A.24.4.7.1 Special suppression systems that are delivered                       occupants on other floors should await further instructions."
   through a total flooding or localized application include, but                  This message is too long, ambiguous, and subject to misunder-
   are not limited to, carbon dioxide, clean agents, halons, and                   standing if not heard clearly. The word "not" might not be
   other extinguishing agents. Special suppression systems require                 heard clearly, or it might be heard to apply to the entire
   audible and visual warning alarms to provide personnel the                      remaining sentence. Similarly, care should be used in selecting
   opportunity to evacuate or to alert personnel not to enter the                  and clearly enunciating words such as "fifth" and "sixth," which
   area of discharge that could be hazardous to life. A special                    can sound the same if the system and environment lead to low
   suppression system discharge can be a life-threatening hazard                   intelligibility.
   for personnel who are not notified and, therefore, fail to react
   to the pre-discharge alarm. In such cases, pre-discharge and                       See A.24.3.6.1 for more information on methodology for
                                                                                   improved message content, structure, and intelligibility. Refer
Y discharge alarms should be independent of the fire alarm loud-                   to Annex D for more information on speech intelligibility and
L speakers that are used as part of the mass notification system. A                how it is predicted.

   special suppression system discharge could pose a greater                          Content of the message should be predicated on the emer-
                                                                                   gency response plan, the nature of the building and its occu-
N threat to personnel that are located in the protected area, or                   pants, the design of the fire alarm system, and testing of the
                                                                                   occupant reaction to the message. Caution is advised that the
   that could enter the protected area, if the local signals were to               fire alarm system operation and message actuation might be
                                                                                   initiated by a manual pull station or detector remote from the
O be overridden and they did not receive the appropriate warn-                     fire.

   ing.                                                                               [1] Schifiliti, R. P., "To Leave or Not to Leave -- That is the
                                                                                   Question!", National Fire Protection Association, World Fire
E  A.24.4.8 When a fire or other emergency occurs in a building,                   Safety Congress & Exposition, May 16, 2000, Denver, CO.
   the usual goal is to evacuate the occupants or relocate them so
S that they are not exposed to hazardous conditions. The excep-                       [2] Ramachandran, G., "Informative Fire Warning Systems,"
   tion occurs in occupancies using stay-in-place/defend-in-place                  Fire Technology, vol. 47, no. 1, February 1991, National Fire
U (SIP/DIP) [1] strategies. It might also be necessary to alert and                Protection Association, 66­81.
   provide information to trained staff responsible for assisting
L evacuation or relocation. Figure A.24.4.8 shows several key                         [3] Bryan, J., "Psychological Variables That May Affect Fire
   steps in a person's reaction and decision-making process [2].                   Alarm Design," Fire Protection Engineering, Society of Fire Protec-
 A Occupants rarely panic in fire situations [3,4]. The behavior                   tion Engineers, Issue No. 11, Fall 2001.
   that they adopt is based on the information they have, the
                                                                                      [4] Proulx, G., "Cool Under Fire," Fire Protection Engineering,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U perceived threat, and the decisions they make. The entire deci-Society of Fire Protection Engineers, Issue No. 16, Fall 2002.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} sion path is full of thought and decisions on the part of the   [5] General Services Administration, Proceedings of the
                                                                                   Reconvened International Conference on Fire Safety in High
ID occupant, all of which take time before leading to the develop-                 Rise Buildings, Washington, D.C., October 1971.

   ment of adaptive behavior. In hindsight, the actions of many                       [6] Proulx, G., "Strategies for Ensuring Appropriate Occu-
                                                                                   pant Response to Fire Alarm Signals," National Research Coun-
IV occupants in real fires are sometimes less than optimal.                        cil of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Construction Technology Update,
                                                                                   No. 43, 1­6, December 2000.
   However, their decisions might have been the best choices                       A.24.4.8.6.1 Along with the pathway survivability require-
   given the information they had. Fire alarm systems that only                    ments, one or more of the following means could be consid-

D use audible tones and/or flashing visual notification appliances

   impart only one bit of information: fire alarm. It has long been

IN recognized that environments having complex egress situations

   or high hazard potentials require occupant notification systems
   that provide more than one bit of information [5]. To reduce
   the response time of the occupants and to effect the desired

R behavior, the message should contain several key elements

   [3,6].

FOThe key elements include the following:
(1) Tell occupants what has happened and where                                     ered acceptable to provide a level of survivability consistent
(2) Tell occupants what they should do                                             with the intent of this requirement:

(3) Tell occupants why they should do it                                           (1) Routing notification appliance circuits separately
                                                                                   (2) Using short-circuit, fault-tolerant signaling line circuits
   There does not seem to be any research that has tested                                 for controlling evacuation signals
actual message content to determine the best way to inform
occupants. The problem is that each building and each fire is                      The requirement for notification appliances to operate in
unique. Messaging is further complicated by the need to give                       those signaling zones that are not attacked by fire will also
different information to different people, depending on their                      require that circuits and equipment that are common to more
location relative to the fire, their training, and their physical/                 than one signaling zone be designed and installed such that
mental capabilities.                                                               the fire will not disable them. For instance, a signaling line
                                                                                   circuit used to control notification appliances in multiple
   Messages should use positive language and avoid negative                        signaling zones should be properly designed and installed so
instructions that could be misinterpreted due to unintelligible                    that one fire would not impair the signaling line circuit,
communications. For example, if you want people to leave an

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-278                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                                                  automatically by sensors or other systems and might be deliv-
                                                                   ered to the target audience using prerecorded messages or live
                      Information

Warning reception     acquisition                                                 messages, or both, tailored to the situation and the audience.
                      time

                                                                                  Each mass notification system could be different, depending
                                                                                  on the anticipated threat and the level of protection intended.
                                                                   As an example, a particular project might not require secure
Perceived warning     Message                                      radio transmissions. As such, criteria for such would not apply.
                      identification                               However, if the authority having jurisdiction or design profes-
  Seek additional     time                                         sional has specified secure radio transmissions, the minimum
    information?                                                   applicable criteria within this document would be required.
                                                                   Deviation from these minimum criteria would require approval
                                                                   of the stakeholders.
LY Evacuation behavior
 N (exit route)
Decision to evacuate  Decision to evacuate                                           Mass notification systems can consist of fully independent
      or relocate     response time                                               systems with minimal or no interface with the building fire
                                                                                  alarm system, systems that report trouble and supervisory
O FIGURE A.24.4.8 Key Steps in Person's Reaction.Type of evacuation               signals through the fire alarm system, systems that share audi-
SE rendering the notification appliances serving more than oneresponse choice timeble and visual notification circuits and appliances with the fire
                                                                                  alarm system, or combination mass notification and fire alarm
signaling zone inoperative.                                                       systems.
                                                                                  A.24.5.1.2(6) Other systems could include wide-area mass
U A.24.4.8.6.3 Paragraph 24.4.8.6.3 requires the protection of                    notification, distributed recipient mass notification, and
                                                                                  regional and national alerting.
circuits as they pass through fire areas other than the one                       A.24.5.2.1 Authorized personnel could include building occu-
                                                                                  pants who can readily access and originate messages in emer-
L served. The purpose of this is to delay possible damage to the                  gency situations. Depending on the individual facility, use of
                                                                                  the mass notification system to originate non-emergency
circuits from fires in areas other than those served by the                       messages could also be permitted. The selection of authorized
                                                                                  personnel should be based on a risk assessment and the build-
A circuits and to increase the likelihood that circuits serving areas             ing emergency response plan.
                                                                                  A.24.5.2.2 Authorized personnel could initiate message signal-
remote from the original fire will have the opportunity to be                     ing over the mass notification system from either an emergency
                                                                                  command center or a secondary (backup) control station(s).
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U actuated and serve their purpose. Note that the protection    In cases where clusters of facilities within the same geographi-
                                                                                  cal region exist, one or more regional control stations could
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} requirement would also apply to a signaling line circuit thatinitiate message signaling. The mass notification system could
                                                                                  permit activation of messages originated by mobile sentries and
ID extends from a master fire alarm control unit to another                       roving patrols using wireless activation devices. Since it is
                                                                                  common practice to allow mass notification systems to be
remote fire alarm control unit where notification appliance                       utilized for "nonemergency" messages, the emergency
circuits might originate.                                                         command center should incorporate a clearly marked and easy
                                                                                  to operate means to distinguish between emergency and none-
IV A.24.4.9.1 Paragraph 24.4.9.1 does not prohibit the provision                  mergency use. Comprehensive training and a fail-safe default
                                                                                  to the emergency mode of operation should be employed to
of multiple notification appliance circuits within a notification                 ensure that no actual emergency message gets transmitted as a
                                                                                  nonemergency broadcast.
D zone.                                                                           A.24.5.2.3 As a general practice, the number of message selec-
IN A.24.5 This section covers the application, installation, loca-                tion switches included as part of the operating controls should
                                                                                  be limited, so that authorized personnel can utilize the system
tion, performance, and maintenance of mass notification
systems used for emergency purposes.

R An in-building mass notification system is considered to be a

system used to provide information and instructions to people

O in a building(s) or other space using intelligible voice commu-

nications and including visual signals, text, graphics, tactile, or

Fother communication methods.
                                                                                  with only minimal familiarity. This, of course, could be a differ-
   Mass notification systems can consist of fully independent                     ent matter on an industrial or college campus where trained
systems with minimal or no interface with the building fire                       individuals are likely to be very familiar with the operation and
alarm system, systems that report trouble and supervisory                         use of the system. In that case, more selection switches could be
signals through the fire alarm system, systems that share audi-                   beneficial.
ble and visual notification circuits and appliances with the fire
alarm system, or combination mass notification and fire alarm
systems.                                                                          A.24.5.2.5 It is recognized that there can be benefit for users
                                                                                  at the ACU to identify which specific location is currently in
                                                                   control. This can be indicated through visual means or
A.24.5.1 Although some minimum criteria are outlined for a         through an audible location code. This can be especially useful
particular feature, the feature might not be applicable for every  for emergency responders utilizing the ACU to know which
project.                                                           remote location is in control. If incorporated into a system,

The information and instructions delivered by a mass notifi-
cation system could be initiated manually by an operator or

2019 Edition          Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       ANNEX A                                                   72-279

such features can be enabled or disabled by authorized person-                            A.24.5.9.2 Devices such as gas or chemical sensors and detec-
nel or as directed through the risk analysis.                                             tors, weather alert signals, or other such signals can be desira-
                                                                                          ble to connect to the mass notification system to provide a
A.24.5.2.10 During emergencies, building occupants should                                 faster response to emergency conditions.
periodically receive an audible clue that the emergency notifi-
cation given by the mass notification system is still in effect.                          A.24.5.10 Refer to 24.5.2 for requirements related to opera-
This also can help building occupants and emergency response                              tion of the system by authorized personnel. It is recognized
personnel recognize that the mass notification system is over-                            that, based on the risk analysis, control equipment and circuits
riding fire alarm notification appliances. The audible signal                             could need different levels of protection for different facilities.
could consist of a simple signal such as a chirp of sufficient                            Access to the fire alarm/mass notification interface should be
duration to be recognized by the usual building occupants and,                            consistent with the action outlined in the emergency response
typically, by occupants who are not hearing disabled.                                     plan. It could have been prior practice in some jurisdictions to
                                                                                          locate the fire alarm control unit in the main lobby of a facility.
   A.24.5.3.1 The mass notification system could permit activa-                           However, it might not be appropriate to locate the mass notifi-
   tion of messages originated by mobile sentries and roving                              cation system autonomous control unit within the lobby if the
   patrols using wireless activation devices.                                             general public would have access to deactivate mass notifica-
                                                                                          tion system components. Based on the risk analysis, it could be
Y A.24.5.3.4 Generally, each separate building should be provi-                           appropriate to locate the autonomous control unit within a
L ded with a separate in-building mass notification system;                               secured room while providing local operating consoles for use
                                                                                          by other authorized personnel.
   however, some facilities (such as a campus-type high school                            A.24.5.12.1 Mass notification systems can include a system
                                                                                          local operating console(s) for authorized occupants to readily
N with multiple separate buildings) might be more effectively                             access and originate messages in emergency and non-
                                                                                          emergency situations. The quantity and location(s) of an
   served by a single in-building mass notification system. Alter-                        LOC(s) should be determined by the risk analysis and the
                                                                                          facilities emergency response plan.
O nately, a risk analysis could determine that a wide-area mass                           A.24.5.13.1 The following is an example scheme for message
                                                                                          prioritization, from highest (1) to lowest (5), for consideration
   notification system provides the optimal capability for mass                           during the risk analysis:
   notification.                                                                          (1) Live voice messages from personnel in the building

E A.24.5.4.1 Alternate methods that achieve the desired statisti-                                should be the highest priority. If systems provide control
S cal availability could be deemed acceptable in lieu of monitor-                                locations that are usable by nonauthorized personnel,
                                                                                                 these controls should be disabled or overridden during
   ing the integrity of circuits, signaling channels, or                                         emergency operations.
                                                                                          (2) Automatic fire alarm messages/other high priority
U communication pathways where consistent with the risk analy-                                   messages as determined by risk analysis criteria.
                                                                                          (3) External messages originated by a wide-area mass notifica-
   sis and emergency response plan.                                                              tion system.
                                                                                          (4) Message priority for emergency conditions such as severe
 L An example of an alternate method could include an attend-                                    weather warnings, gas leaks, chemical spills, and other
                                                                                                 hazardous conditions should be determined by risk analy-
   ant monitored system, which is a device or system intended to                                 sis criteria and defined in the emergency response plan.
                                                                                          (5) Non-emergency messages, such as general announce-
A be constantly operated and maintained by competent and                                         ments and time function signaling (work breaks, class
                                                                                                 change, etc.), should have the lowest priority.
   experienced personnel either locally or from a remote station.                         A.24.5.13.6(2) Unless the risk analysis determines otherwise,
                                                                                          the fire alarm system should always be automatically returned
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ANSI/NEMA SB-40, Communications Systems for Life Safety in            to normal functionality. If the fire alarm system is automatically
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Schools, references "operational integrity" in relation to systemsreturned to normal functionality, the building emergency

   that are used regularly for routine purposes and suggests that
   such systems would be statistically more available due to a lower

IV risk of falling into a state of disrepair. ANSI/NEMA SB-40 also

   addresses system readiness in relation to constant use, and
   recommends that, to the greatest extent possible, equipment

D used in emergency communication should be used daily in

   routine situations. Therefore, it is important to consider the

IN level to which a system is constantly operated and the level of

   operator training when preparing a risk analysis. Based on the
   occupancy of the premise, the risk analysis, and the emergency

R response plan, the designer and authority having jurisdiction

   can more easily determine whether it is appropriate for loud-
   speaker circuits to utilize alternate methods for equivalency.

OSuch a constantly operated system could be determined to
Fachieve a statistically significant availability to satisfy an author-
ity having jurisdiction.                                            response plan should state that no user intervention is
                                                                                          required. When manual intervention is required to return the
A.24.5.7 The risk analysis should identify what emergency                                 fire alarm system to normal, specific instructions should be in
situations will take priority over the fire alarm evacuation
signal. Should a tornado warning for the area take priority over    place in the emergency response plan explaining how the fire
                                                                                          alarm system notification appliances should be reactivated.
an active fire in the building? Should a breach of security at the                        These instructions should be located at the fire alarm and mass
campus entry gate take priority over an active fire in the build-                         notification control units. Individuals responsible for manually
ing? If a manual fire alarm pull box has been actuated, it might                          returning the fire alarm system to normal should be properly
be a terrorist action to have people leave the building and walk                          trained in the procedure.
into an exterior threat. In such a case, mass notification input
is intended to override the fire alarm evacuation signals to redi-                        A.24.5.14 Control functions need to be accessible for those
                                                                                          intended to use them. This requirement is not intended to
rect the occupants based on the conditions.                                               require that the control enclosure be within the dimensions,

                                                                                          but rather the respective buttons, latches, microphone, and

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-280                                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

other items the user will need to have within reach and view.      Operable
Figure A.24.5.14(a) applies when the horizontal reach is less      buttons,
than 10 in. (254 mm). Figure A.24.5.14(b) applies when the         switches,
horizontal reach is between 10 in. (254 mm) and 24 in.             microphones,
(610 mm).                                                          levers,
A.24.5.18 Care in location and placement is critical to the        latches
survivability of the textual visual appliance and maximizing its
effectiveness. Locate the textual visual appliance away from                        Visual
direct sunlight or direct local area lighting. Avoid locating the                   elevation
textual visual appliance near heating and air-conditioning
ducts.

A.24.5.18.2 The requirement of 24.5.18.2 does not imply that       Controls
multiple primary methods of visual appliances cannot exist in a    elevation
common area. Both visual notification appliance and graphical

Y or textual appliances are designated as primary where the

authority having jurisdiction declares both to be required.

L When textual audible notification is required, consideration is

warranted for high-noise areas and for a person who is deaf or

N hard of hearing being capable of clearly receiving instructions.
O As mass notification systems are deployed, the more complex

emergency management communication requirements that go
USE Operable                                                                                                       60 in.
                                                                                                                 (1.52 m)
  buttons,
  switches,                                                          42 in.                           40 in.
                                                                   (1.07 m)                         (1.02 m)
L microphones,
                                                                            28 in.  Labels,
  levers,                                                                (711 mm)   screens,
  latches                                                                           lamps, etc.,
                  Visual                                                            visible
{C56A4DC7-64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} Controlselevation                      from
                                                                                    hatched
   elevation                         60 in.                                         area
                                   (1.52 m)
FOR IND 48 in.
                                                                                                                      10­24 in.
                                                                                                                  (254­610 mm)

                                                                    FIGURE A.24.5.14(b) Horizontal Reach of 10 in. (254 mm)
                                                                      to 24 in. (610 mm).

(1.22 m)                                                           beyond what can be indicated by a visual notification appliance
                                                                   and a tone are being addressed. The intelligibility require-
                                                                   ments of an MNS/ECS are a direct reflection of this reality.
                                                                   However, for a person who is deaf or hard of hearing, no
                                                                   degree of intelligibility might be sufficient. Additionally, there
                                                                   are physical spaces where intelligibility is impossible or imprac-
                                                                   tical to provide. In designating a primary visual notification
                                                                   appliance, it is easy to assume that a visual notification appli-
                                                                   ance is sufficient and all other visual notification is automati-
                                                                   cally supplemental.

                                        40 in.                     However, where the risk analysis and an emergency response
                                                                   plan require the communication of MNS textual audible
          36 in.                        (1.02 m)

        (910 mm)  Labels, screens,                                 instructions for occupants, a visual notification appliance

                  lamps, etc., visible                             should not be considered a sufficient primary notification
                  from hatched area                                appliance where intelligibility cannot be achieved or where

                                                                   consideration for lone individuals or groups of individuals who
                                                                   are deaf or hard of hearing might prevent them from respond-
                                                                   ing appropriately to emergency instructions.

                                   <10 in.                         A.24.5.20 The video display can be a video appliance used to
                                 (254 mm)                          facilitate mass notification. Information displayed could be
                                                                   video, graphic, text, or audio. Information can be transmitted
 FIGURE A.24.5.14(a) Horizontal Reach of Less Than 10 in.          over a video distribution network, MATV, or CATV system.
   (254 mm).                                                       These messages can be standardized or customized for specific

2019 Edition      Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX A                                                                                                                                 72-281

applications or situations. Dynamic text elements can be                                              through an alternate means such as backup generator or an
derived from secure data or updated in real time, either locally                                      ESS. For an ESS in particular, care should be taken to deter-
or remotely. Messages can be controlled by authorities to                                             mine the required capacity to support a minimally acceptable
update and alter content with manual overrides from author-                                           operational period. See Section 10.6, Power Supplies, which
ized security, police, and so forth to ensure up-to-date and real-                                    highlights concerns and issues such as continuity, capacity, and
time information. The same can be accomplished with remote                                            various options.
control from an emergency command center. Examples of
interfaces used for real-time control include USB, Ethernet,                                          A.24.6 Wide-area mass notification systems are generally instal-
RS-232, and GPI.                                                                                      led to provide real-time information to outdoor areas. These
                                                                                                      systems are normally provided with, and operated from, two or
A.24.5.22.1.3 Where automatic transmission is required to a                                           more emergency command centers. Communications between
supervising station, it should be performed in accordance with                                        emergency command centers and in-building mass notification
the emergency response plan. The purpose for disabling or                                             systems is provided. Communications between the emergency
   overriding the fire alarm system notification appliances during                                    command centers and regional or national command systems
   simultaneous fire and mass notification events is so that occu-                                    could also be provided. Wide-area mass notification systems are
   pants will not receive conflicting messages and fail to respond                                    often those such as campus giant voice systems, military base
                                                                                                      public address systems, civil defense warning systems, large
Y correctly. Fire alarm notification that should be overridden                                        outdoor visual displays, and so forth.
L during a mass notification system activation could include audi-                                    A.24.6.2 A commonly used method of protecting against
                                                                                                      unauthorized changes using multiple levels of password protec-
   ble notification appliances, visual notification appliances,                                       tion can be described as follows (in ascending levels of access):
                                                                                                      (1) Access Level 1. Access by persons who have a general
N textual notification appliances, and video notification applian-
                                                                                                             responsibility for safety supervision, and who might be
   ces.                                                                                                      expected to investigate and initially respond to an alarm
                                                                                                             or trouble signal.
O A.24.5.22.3.1 As part of the risk analysis and emergency                                            (2) Access Level 2. Access by persons who have a specific
                                                                                                             responsibility for safety, and who are trained to operate
   response plan, consideration should be given to future inter-                                             the control unit.
                                                                                                      (3) Access Level 3. Access by persons who are trained and
E facing in-building mass notification systems with a wide-area                                              authorized to take control over a given area of a site to
                                                                                                             allow local paging, which might be different from that of
   mass notification system if it does not presently exist. In-                                              another area. Note: This might require a higher form of
                                                                                                             access to the local control.
S building mass notification systems should be designed to allow                                      (4) Access Level 4. Access by persons that serve in a system
                                                                                                             administrator capacity and are authorized to make
   future interface with a wide-area mass notification system.                                               changes to the system and its associated software.
                                                                                                      A.24.6.3 A wide-area mass notification system could have the
U A.24.5.23.1 A combined system can include an autonomous                                             capability to communicate with other notification systems on
                                                                                                      the site, such as the telephone alerting system, paging system,
   control unit and fire alarm control unit supplied from different                                   cell phone, pager, PDA activation, e-Blast, message scrolling,
                                                                                                      reverse 911, fax transmission, and highway advisory radio and
L manufacturers or placed in separate equipment enclosures;                                           sign control system (used for dynamic control of radio informa-
                                                                                                      tion and traffic signs for emergency information and traffic
   however, the autonomous control unit and fire alarm control                                        management).
                                                                                                      A.24.6.5 High power loudspeaker arrays should be designed
A unit should be integrated in their controls and performance to                                      with directional characteristics that will minimize the distortion
                                                                                                      of voice signals by interface from other zones and will minimize
   meet the requirements of this Code.                                                                the transmission of voice or tone signals into environmentally
                                                                                                      sensitive areas or off the site.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N A.24.5.24.2 When a professional-grade public address system,
ID an engineered sound reinforcement system, or a pro-audio

   sound system does not meet all the performance requirements
   of Chapter 24, it can still be evaluated and documented with a

IV risk analysis and permitted for use as an emergency communi-

   cations system with the approval of the authority having juris-

D diction. For example, consider a professional-grade public

   address system that includes outdoor-class loudspeakers not

IN listed for fire. In the risk analysis, an argument could be made

   that the system is allowable for use during a non-fire-related
   evacuation of the structure, a lock-down or lock-out condition,
   or a reverse evacuation.

 R Another example could be an attendant monitored system,

   which is a device or system intended to be constantly operated

Oand maintained by competent and experienced personnel
Feither locally or from a remote station. Consider a professional-
grade public address system, an engineered sound reinforce-                                           A.24.6.5.1(B) Refer to Annex D for more information on
ment system, or a pro-audio sound system that has a history of                                        speech intelligibility and how it is predicted.
reliability, is used regularly by trained personnel, but does not
support the monitoring for integrity requirements of NFPA 72.                                         Normal weather conditions should be specified as appropri-
When coupled with appropriate equivalency information provi-                                          ate for the geographic location.
ded within the risk analysis, such a system could be deemed
acceptable to an authority having jurisdiction for specific occu-      In outdoor areas, such as in industrial areas with many multi-
pancies and uses.                                                   story buildings, the maximum distance of personnel from an
                                                                    outdoor loudspeaker often has to be significantly reduced to
The risk analysis should also consider the need for secon-                                            retain acceptable intelligibility of the voice message. Loud-
dary power. Typically, public address systems, engineered sound                                       speakers that provide directional capability should be used.
reinforcement systems, and pro-audio sound systems do not           These can be mounted on building exteriors if the loudspeak-
include integrated secondary power. So, if the application                                            ers do not radiate unacceptable levels of sound into the build-
requires secondary power, it would usually need to be provided                                        ing on which they are mounted.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-282        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

At some sites, it could be necessary to control the amount of                       Distributed recipient mass notification systems could incor-
sound that propagates in undesirable directions, such as into                       porate a predefined library of signals and messaging appropri-
civilian communities adjacent to the site boundaries or into                        ate for, but not limited to, the following:
wildlife areas with protected or endangered animal species.
Additionally, in some areas, it might be necessary to mount                         (1) Presidential alert message
wide-area mass notification loudspeakers on the side of a build-                    (2) Homeland security levels
ing while simultaneously preventing an unacceptable increase                        (3) Terrorism threats, watches, or warnings
in that building's interior noise levels.                                           (4) Evacuation routes
                                                                                    (5) Emergency directives
                                                                                    (6) Personnel recall requirements
A.24.6.5.4 At a minimum, the high power loudspeaker array                           (7) Federal, DOD, police, fire, local, or installation-specific
controller should be located above known high water level
during historic floods. In northern states, the high power loud-                           warning and notification requirements
speaker array should be located above known snow levels.                            (8) Amber alerts

   When selecting high power loudspeaker arrays, care should be                        The distributed recipient mass notification system could be
   taken to ensure the equipment is rated to operate between the                    capable of monitoring emergency notifications from multiple
   high and low temperature range and other anticipated envi-                       data sources [such as Wireless Emergency Alert (WEA),
                                                                                    National Weather Service, Emergency Managers Weather Infor-
Y ronmental conditions for the geographical location of installa-                   mation Network (EMWIN), Naval Meteorology and Oceanogra-
L tion. The system designer should inquire about this                               phy (METOC), and others as determined locally] and
                                                                                    automatically sending out notifications to designated facilities
   information as part of the risk analysis.                                        and personnel based on predefined rules.

N A.24.6.7.2 High power loudspeaker arrays should be mounted                           A mass notification system could also be capable of reaching
                                                                                    out to all online personnel by leveraging a highly secure,
   not to exceed the OSHA and FEMA Publication CPG-17,                              redundant, Web-based IP network architecture to manage the
                                                                                    entire mass notification process. Agencies and organizations
O Outdoor Warning Systems Guide, for occupational noise exposure                    can create role-based uses such as operators, administrators,
                                                                                    and recipients, based on their access rights across multiple
   limits or an absolute limit of 123 C-weighted decibels (dBC) as                  facilities, campuses, and installations. System rules could be
                                                                                    established to determine operator permissions and actions
E referenced in FEMA to anyone in the immediate vicinity of the                     such as creating and activating scenarios, as well as the extent
                                                                                    and geography of alerts and delivery systems and devices that
   appliances.                                                                      should be used. Such a Web-based mass notification system
                                                                                    would employ an open, standards-based architecture. The
S A.24.6.9 High power loudspeaker arrays and their supporting                       system could be integrated with existing user directories to
                                                                                    support organizational hierarchy and emergency response
   structures should have a minimum design wind speed of                            groups. It could be structured to allow emergency criteria­
                                                                                    based targeting of emergency alerts.
U 100 miles/hr [161 km/hr (86.8 kn)]. The supporting structure
                                                                                       Additionally, this annex material provides information on
   should be sized to accommodate the static and dynamic loads                      ongoing development of system requirements for net-centric
                                                                                    alerting systems (NCAS) that will be based on IP technologies.
L produced by the sound systems and all attachments. Seismic                        This annex is not mandatory, but is provided to stimulate devel-
                                                                                    opment of suitable requirements and standards. Consequently,
   loads are generally site specific.                                               user suggestions and feedback on this annex are highly encour-
                                                                                    aged and requested. Methods to ensure reliability and robust-
A  A.24.7 Distributed recipient mass notification systems are                       ness in off-normal or emergency conditions are of particular
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U enterprise-class systems for the management of, and mass distri-concern. The required amount of and method for isolating
                                                                                    alerting functions from normal, non-alerting system functions
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} bution of, emergency notification messages within buildings,  needs development.

ID throughout installations, across entire geographical regions, or                    NCAS leverage the IP network infrastructure to instantly

   throughout a worldwide military command. Using distributed
   recipient mass notification systems, designated system opera-

IV tors would be able to rapidly and reliably inform appropriate

   personnel of homeland security levels (including chemical,

D biological, radiological, and nuclear threats; hazardous weather

   conditions; and many other critical events), possibly with near

IN real-time response capability.
       A distributed recipient mass notification system is meant to
   communicate to a wide range of targeted individuals and

R groups. These systems might use mass dialing systems, includ-

   ing reverse 911, email, SMS, or other directed communications
   methods to broadcast information. They might also use wired

O or wireless networks for one- or two-way communications
Fand/or control between a building or area and an emergency
services organization (information, command, and control).                          reach those personnel who have access to nearly any IP-
                                                                                    connected devices [such as pop-up alerts on personal comput-
   Although classified as one-way ECS, distributed recipient                        ers (PC), text messages to cellular telephones, electronic mail
mass notification systems could be capable of centrally track-                      messages, and voice messages to voiceover-IP (VoIP) tele-
ing, in real time, all alerting activities for each individual recipi-
ent, including sending, receiving, and responding to alerts, and                    phones and PCs]. Additionally, NCAS could be used to actuate,
                                                                                    through a single user interface, other (IP based and non-IP
be able to generate reports based on tracked information.                           based) alerting systems, such as wide-area alerting systems and
Distributed recipient mass notification systems could be able to                    traditional dial-up telephone alerting systems.
provide ability to collect and report user responses to alerts,
such as "I am safe," "I need assistance," and "I am not in affec-                      NCAS can be installed independently or at a central loca-
ted area."                                                                          tion. In a centrally managed NCAS configuration, personnel
                                                                                    and facilities in the regional operations center's particular area
                                                                                    of coverage could be alerted instantly by events, either from
                                                                                    any individual installation, or centrally from the regional oper-

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                          ANNEX A                                                                                                           72-283

ations center. Using management tools, designated operators                        A.24.7.5 Distributed recipient mass notification systems would
from each installation in the region could log in via a web                        be capable of sending alert messages to end-users (recipients)
browser and have complete access to their own portion of the                       via multiple delivery methods, including the following:
NCAS. The regional operations center would retain the ability
to centrally monitor and manage all portions of the system,                        (1) Audio-visual network alerts to desktops and laptops via
including supervisory and trouble conditions of the different                             desktop pop-up
system components and integrated components.
                                                                                   (2) Text alerts to mobile phones and pagers
                                                                                   (3) Text alerts to electronic mail (e-mail) clients
                                                                                   (4) Text alerts to social networks
The NCAS would incorporate a Web-based management and                              (5) Audio alerts to phones
alert activation application through which all operators and
administrators could gain access to the system's capabilities,                     (6) Audio alerts to existing wide-area or building voice and or
based on the users' permissions and the defined access policy.                            mass notification systems
Such a management application would incorporate manage-
                                                                                   (7) Network alerts to any other IP-connected devices via
                                                                                          standard XML and CAP protocols
   ment of the alert activation flow through all delivery methods,                    The system could be extendable to support additional deliv-
   as well as end-user management, operators' permission and                       ery methods in the future as this technology develops.
   access, tracking and reporting, and all administrative aspects of               A.24.7.6 A distributed recipient mass notification system could
                                                                                   support multiple server and multiple site configurations to
Y the system.                                                                      achieve a "hot standby" failover configuration (i.e., no down
 L Distributed recipient mass notification systems could inter-                    time in case of failure in a single server), as well as to support
                                                                                   higher load scenarios (e.g., more users). This could be accom-
   face and interoperate with other types of mass notification                     plished with premises-based systems or hosted configurations.
                                                                                      Backup configuration can either be a net-centric system
N capabilities, including wide-area and in-building mass notifica-                 architecture located behind internet firewalls or hosted off-site,
                                                                                   outside the owner's internet firewall utilizing a hosted software
   tion systems. During emergencies, systems operators should not                  and hardware configuration operated and maintained by
                                                                                   DRMNS provider(s), or incorporate features of both configura-
O need to send notifications using multiple alerting systems. The                  tions.
                                                                                   A.24.8 Two-way, in-building emergency services communica-
   distributed recipient mass notification system, particularly                    tions systems are used by fire fighters, police, and other emer-
                                                                                   gency services personnel. This does not preclude equipment
E NCAS, might be able to provide the capability to integrate user                  outside of the protected premises.
                                                                                   A.24.8.6 Consideration should be given to the type of tele-
   interfaces and consolidate access to multiple mass notification                 phone handset that fire fighters use in areas where high ambi-
                                                                                   ent noise levels exist or areas where high noise levels could
S and alerting systems.                                                            exist during a fire condition. Push-to-talk handsets, handsets
                                                                                   that contain directional microphones, or handsets that contain
   A.24.7.1 Distributed recipient mass notification systems could                  other suitable noise-canceling features, can be used.
                                                                                   A.24.8.19 Two-way, in-building wired emergency services
U enable the management of the notification flow, including                        communications systems are intended to provide emergency
                                                                                   service personnel and designated building occupants with a
   users' management, groups targeting, operators' permissions,                    supervised, reliable communication system that is completely
                                                                                   independent of other in-building communication systems. The
L access policies, predefined emergency scenarios, and response                    survivability of two-way, in-building wired emergency services
                                                                                   communications systems is paramount as they are intended for
   tracking and reporting.                                                         use during and throughout the duration of a fire or other
                                                                                   emergency event. This kind of functionality requires that meas-
A A.24.7.2 Distributed recipient mass notification systems could                   ures are taken to ensure that the system is designed, installed,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U be capable of sending alert messages in a prioritized method toand maintained in such a manner that they can survive and
                                                                                   function under extreme conditions.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} target recipients according to the following:

ID (1) Hierarchical organizational structure (as would be impor-
          ted from an active directory)

IV (2) Organizational roles

   (3) Specific distribution lists [e.g., hazardous materials
          (HAZMAT) response teams]

D (4) Specific distribution (e.g., person who is deaf or hard of
          hearing or others with disabilities that warrant prioritized
  IN notification)
   (5) Dynamic groups created through on-the-fly queries of the

          user directory
   (6) Geographical locations (e.g., entire bases, zones within

  R bases)

   (7) IP addresses (required for targeting devices in specific

 Ophysical locations)
FDistributed recipient mass notification systems should

   provide mechanisms to update user and targeting data(e.g.,
   user data import, integration with personnel directories, and
self-user registration).
                                                                                   A.24.10 Generally, an area of refuge (area of rescue assis-
                                                                                   tance) two-way emergency communications system, a stairway
      Distributed recipient mass notification systems could use a                  communications system, an elevator landing communications
  Web-based user interface, support locally designated standard                    system, and an occupant evacuation elevator lobby communica-
  network ports and protocols, and provide open interfaces to                      tions system are all members of the same system type fulfilling
  support interoperability, such as eXtensible markup language                     the same functions in different locations. These systems are
  (XML) and common alerting protocol (CAP) based emer-                             required to be installed in different buildings by applicable
  gency messages. (See OASIS Standard CAP-V1.2, OASIS Common                       building codes, and they are considered as life-safety emer-
  Alerting Protocol version 1.2.)                                                  gency communication systems to be used by building occu-
·                                                                                  pants during fire and non-fire emergencies. Because they are

                                                                                   similar and all are two-way emergency communications systems,

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-284                                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

it is appropriate that they are mandated by a common set of          ing (or unable to communicate at all), the appropriate emer-
requirements. These systems are different in nature from the         gency responders will be dispatched to the specific building
two emergency communications systems specified in                    address. They should be able to locate the master control unit
24.3.7.2(1) and 24.3.7.2(2) that are meant to be used by fire        at the building's central control point and establish the exact
fighters or other first responders or emergency personnel.           call location within the building on the master control unit
                                                                        display.
   "Areas of refuge" or "areas of rescue assistance" are areas       N· A.24.10.6 One method by which a signal is transmitted to the
that have direct access to an exit, where people who are unable
to use stairs can remain temporarily in safety to await further      off-site monitoring station utilizes telephone connections in
instructions or assistance during emergency evacuation or            conjunction with caller ID to identify the phone number and a
other emergency situations. It is, therefore, important that a       name associated with the building. The call is initially identi-
method to communicate exists between that remote location            fied at the off-site monitoring location via caller ID information
and a constantly attended location either within the building        (provided by the telephone service), a prerecorded message, or
Y Stairway communications systems are typically provided in

high-rise buildings between the fire command center and

L remote points located at not less than every fifth floor in stair-

ways where the stairway doors are locked from the stair side to

N prevent building re-entry. It is important that a method to

communicate exists between that remote location in the stairs

O and a constantly attended location either within the building

or at an off-site remote location so that appropriate action for

E assistance can be initiated.
or at an off-site remote location where appropriate action for          other approved means, prior to initiating the two-way commu-
assistance can be initiated by trained personnel.                       nications. Information provided can be used to access a data-
                                                                        base of building addresses and other related information to aid
S confused with an elevator landing communications system, or           emergency responders attending the location. The intention of
U system. The elevator car two-way communications system is             this section is to ensure that off-site monitoring personnel have
Elevator car communications systems should not be                       instant access to the building address so that emergency
                                                                        responders can be immediately dispatched to the correct loca-
an occupant evacuation elevator lobby communications                    tion.
L A17.1/CSA B44, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators. Inspec-   N A.24.10.7 Generally, the building code, specification engineer,
A systems is performed in accordance with ASME A17.2, Guide for         or system designer will identify the proposed locations of the
installed in accordance with the requirements of ASME                   remote communications stations, as well as the master control
                                                                        unit. These locations should be submitted for approval by the
                                                                        authority having jurisdiction based on Chapter 7 requirements.
                                                                        Requirements found in Section 24.10 should be coordinated
                                                                        with the requirements of the building code in force.
                                                                     N A.24.10.11 Generally, an area of refuge (area of rescue assis-
                                                                        tance) two-way emergency communications system, a stairway
                                                                        communications system, an elevator landing communications
                                                                        system, and an occupant evacuation elevator lobby communica-
                                                                        tions system are members of the same type of system. Since it is
                                                                        common to install these different systems in the same building,
                                                                        there is no prohibition against any combination of these
                                                                        systems being installed in a common building as a single
                                                                        combination system with a single master control unit and
                                                                        remotely located communications stations.
                                                                        A.24.11 An emergency communications system information,
                                                                        command, and control is intended to include wired or wireless
                                                                        networks for one- or two-way communications and/or control
                                                                        between a building or area and an emergency command center
                                                                        and could include an emergency services organization or
                                                                        public alarm reporting system. In a very basic configuration, a
                                                                        system and the receiving facility could be a supervising station
                                                                        system. However, there can be more complex systems that allow
                                                                        control of building systems and communications to building
                                                                        occupants from a remote location, including a municipal or
                                                                        other public alarm reporting command center or possibly even
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ·

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} N
tion and testing of elevator car two-way communications

ID known as "call boxes." The master control unit is the main
Inspection of Elevators, Escalators and Moving Walks.

A.24.10.2     The  remote  communications  stations    are  also
IV systems with numerous remote communications stations might
control unit for the system, which includes a visual display of
the specific remote communications station location(s). Large
D the overall capacity of the system. The secondary power supply
also include additional (sub) control unit(s) that could expand
IN N A.24.10.2.2 The central control point is typically the fire
   command center in high-rise buildings or any other approved
   location in low-rise or other buildings not provided with a fire
R command center.
is required in case of a loss of the primary power supply.

N A.24.10.2.3 Typically the fire command center is not occupied      from a mobile command vehicle using secure communications.

O during non-fire emergencies, and therefore the master control
Funit should have dial-out capability to an off-site constantly
attended monitoring station. During fire emergencies, fire
fighters will be in the fire command center, and they will be
able to provide assistance and guidance to occupants in need.        A.24.11.1 For the purposes of this chapter, an emergency
                                                                     command center is considered to be a mass notification system
                                                                     facility(s), with communications and control equipment serv-
 A.24.10.5 To ensure a timely response to a call for assistance,     ing more than one building, where responsible authorities
   the call is to be forwarded to an approved off-site constantly    receive information from premises sources or systems, or from
attended location, such as a supervising station, 911 communi-
cations center, or other monitoring location. Typically, when        (higher level) regional or national sources or systems, and then
the person in need is able to communicate, it is expected that       disseminate appropriate information to a building, multiple
the monitoring personnel can quickly establish the exact loca-       buildings, outside campus areas, municipalities, or a combina-
                                                                     tion of these in accordance with the emergency response plan
tion of the building and the location within the building the        established for the premises. A mass notification system could
call was made from and communicate this information to the           include at least one emergency command center with optional
emergency responders. However, if the person initiating the          secondary/alternate emergency command centers.
call is unable to provide the specific location within the build-

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                   ANNEX A                                                                                                       72-285

A.24.11.1.1 The location of the emergency command center                         A.24.12 The risk analysis forms the basis for the emergency
should be coordinated with the first responders. The primary                     response plan.
emergency command center should be located at the
command post, emergency operations center, or some such                             Ensuring accurate information dissemination to the right
similar location. A redundant emergency command center, if                       people, at the right place, and at the right time is essential to
required, should be located at a physically separate location,                   the mitigation of threat actions and consequences. Trained
such as a police station, fire station, or similar facility.                     personnel are charged with making such decisions in real time.
                                                                                 Quite often, the instructions provided to personnel in affected
Generally, the primary emergency command center should                           areas pertain to acting in specific defensive ways so as not to
be housed in a building or portion of a building separated                       expose them to danger. A typical example is the case of a chem-
from the rest of the facility and having a 2-hour fire-resistive-                ical or biological agent attack wherein the right response is to
rated separation.                                                                relocate to secure areas within the building while sealing doors
                                                                                 and windows and shutting down air intakes, rather than to
      The mass notification system might require activation of                   leave the building and be exposed to the attacking agent.
   messages originated by mobile sentries and roving patrols using
   wireless activation devices. In cases where clusters of facilities               In cases of bomb threats, where specific information is avail-
                                                                                 able, directions for evacuation are to be given; these directions
Y within the same geographical region exist, one or more                         require more specificity than simply the instruction "Evacuate
                                                                                 the building." In most cases, the evacuation route might
   regional control stations might also exercise control.                        depend on threat intelligence and is likely to be different from
                                                                                 that specified in an emergency response plan. Most people can
L A.24.11.1.4 The emergency command center should be staf-                       tell where the fire comes from but do not always know where
N fed by qualified personnel who would monitor the system and                    the bomb is. Automatic evacuation of a building, a common
                                                                                 procedure in cases of a fire, is to be avoided, since it might
   take action appropriate to the emergency response plan estab-                 expose personnel to even greater danger.

O lished for the specific premises.                                                 One of the reasons for implementing a mass notification
                                                                                 system is the threat of terrorism. Terrorism attacks tend to be
   A.24.11.1.5 It is imperative that individuals expected to                     well organized and are often planned with details to inflict the
                                                                                 widest degree of damage that is possible. The mass notification
E initiate or deliver emergency messages be properly trained in                  system must be designed to withstand various attack scenarios
                                                                                 and survive even if some damage has already occurred.
   the expected operations. Individuals must be familiar with the
                                                                                    Each design of a mass notification system should be specific
S equipment, its location, and functions if they will be expected                to the nature and anticipated risks of each facility for which it is
                                                                                 designed. Although this chapter outlines some specific criteria
   to react properly in an emergency. In an emergency situation.                 and/or limitations, each design should be based on recognized
                                                                                 performance-based design practices.
U people only react according to instinct or habit. If the individ-
                                                                                    The mass notification system should take into account vari-
   ual has not had proper and repeated training over the emer-                   ous considerations, such as those indicated in this chapter. The
                                                                                 particular design might or might not incorporate these provi-
L gency expectations, they could lack the proper instinct or                     sions.

   habit.                                                                           Considerations for developing a mass notification system are
                                                                                 as follows:
 A Reading an employee manual is generally not an effective
                                                                                  (1) Specific design for the facility
   means of training for an emergency. To be effective, training                  (2) Account for anticipated risks
                                                                                  (3) Use of live and/or prerecorded messaging
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U must be reinforced with multiple means such as text, audio,   (4) Interfacing with other building emergency communica-

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} visual, and, most importantly, hands-on experience. Regular        tions systems
                                                                                  (5) Interfacing with wide-area notification systems
ID drills allowing for delivery of live messages indicating an emer-              (6) Ability to control the HVAC and access control systems

   gency condition is important. Many people have a very difficult

IV time communicating clearly and effectively in an emergency

   situation when they are excited or fearful. If live messages are
   to be effective, they must be short, to the point, and in a calm

D tone conveying exactly what is expected. Screaming into the

   microphone, for instance, would not be appropriate. Actual

IN message content will depend on the emergency response plan

   in place for the respective business and the response to an
   unfolding event. Situations such as an intruder in a building

R have become more common today and, as such, should be

   considered and planned for.

OA.24.11.3 Different messages or signals could be prerecorded
For live voice, tones, and so forth.
A.24.11.6 Text notification via wireless devices and desktop                     (7) Access to system components
computer notification could be an effective means for deliver-                   (8) Survivability of the system
ing mass notification messages to multiple recipient groups.                     (9) Communication link redundancy and security
Supplementary wireless text messaging could be effective in                      (10) Redundancy and security of the emergency command
reaching remote personnel. Desktop notification is particularly                  center
effective when more complex information must be conveyed,                        (11) Ability to customize and add to prerecorded message
and it can be a cost-effective interim solution prior to, but not                library
in lieu of, installing an in-building mass notification system.                  (12) Messages should be tailored to the situation and audi-
                                                                                 ence
                                                                                 (13) Scripted messages for live voice messages
                                                                                 (14) Proper training of individuals that operate the system

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-286                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.24.12.2 The design professional(s) as part of the design                           A.26.2.1.2 The term immediately in this context is intended to
team should be experienced in multiple areas considered                              mean "without unreasonable delay." Routine handling should
essential for conducting the risk analysis and performance                           take a maximum of 90 seconds from receipt of an alarm signal.
design based on the scope and size of the project. Areas of
experience can include, but are not limited to:              N A.26.2.1.3(3) Events can be general alarm signals or other fire
(1) Applying recognized performance-based design concepts,      alarm signals not identified individually by point or zone.

(2) Conducting hazard and operability studies                                        A.26.2.2 The term immediately in this context is intended to
(3) Technical aspects of fire alarm system design                                    mean "without unreasonable delay." Routine handling should
(4) Technical aspects of emergency communication systems                             take a maximum of 90 seconds from receipt of an alarm signal
                                                                                     or at the end of the verification time by the supervising station
(5) Security risks and/or terrorist threats                  until the initiation of retransmission to the communications
(6) Building code requirements and limitations with respect  center.
       to egress
   (7) Human response to emergency conditions
   (8) Development of emergency response plans                                       A.26.2.2(1) It is recognized that individual fire departments
   (9) Other qualifications relative to the needs of the user/risk                   will have a preference on whether verification is used in certain
                                                                                     occupancies based on many variables such as department-
 Y The design professional(s) will often be a part of the engi-                      specific staffing or response protocols, occupancy staffing, and
L neering design team preparing project documents and specifi-                       occupancy risk. This section allows the fire authority to specifi-
                                                                                     cally select those occupancies where verification is allowed. It
   cations. However, the design professional can work for or be                      should be understood that the use of the alarm verification
                                                                                     process could delay the response to the alarm by up to an addi-
N obtained by a qualified installation company. The design                           tional 90 seconds.
                                                                                     A.26.2.2(4) The 90-second allowance for a supervising station
   professional should be bound by professional licensing guide-                     to call the protected premise to verify the validity of the
                                                                                     received alarm signal is in addition to the time allowed for the
O lines to ensure that the risk analysis is conducted in an objec-                   supervising station to initiate the retransmission to the commu-
                                                                                     nications center.
   tive manner based on user needs and not based on product or                       A.26.2.2(6) It is important to notify the communications
   employment.                                                                       center that an alarm signal was verified and that fire conditions
                                                                                     exist at the protected premises or that some other type of an
E A.24.12.6.3 Communication and coordination between and                             emergency exists. Fire departments typically have a substan-
S among the various members of the design team is an important                       tially larger response for confirmed structure fires.
                                                                                     A.26.2.2(7) If an alarm signal cannot be reliably confirmed as
   element to achieving the goals for performance of the system.                     a nuisance alarm, then it should be immediately retransmitted.
                                                                                     This might include situations where no contact is made within
U  A.24.12.6.6 The SFPE Engineering Guide to Performance-Based Fire                  the premises, or where the persons within the premises cannot
L Protection provides guidance on the elements of a design brief.                    verify the source of the alarm within the allowable 90 seconds,
                                                                                     or other related scenarios.
   A.26.1 Table A.26.1 provides a tool for users of the Code to                      A.26.2.2(8) When verification of a fire alarm signal results in a
                                                                                     signal not being reported to the communications center, it is
A easily and systematically look up requirements for protected                       important that fire department personnel be made aware of
                                                                                     the alarm and the reason for nondispatch so that problematic
   premises, central station service, remote supervising station,                    systems can be identified.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U and proprietary supervising station alarm systems.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.26.1.1 Supervising station alarm systems include the equip-

   ment at the protected premises as well as the equipment at the
   supervising station itself. While the operational requirements

IV relating to the signals sent off-premises fall under the scope of

   Chapter 26, the requirements of Chapter 23 also apply. For

D example, for protected premises fire alarm systems, refer to
FOR IN Figure A.26.1.1.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   ANNEX A                                                                               72-287

 Table A.26.1 Alarm System Performance Criteria

Attribute           Protected                    Central Station     Remote Supervising Station                       Proprietary
                     Premises                         Service                 Alarm System                       Supervising Station
               Fire Alarm System
                                                 Alarm System                                                       Alarm System

Applicability  All fire alarm systems Supervising station            Where central station       Supervising station monitoring
                                         service provided by a       service is neither                          contiguous or
                                         prime contractor.           required nor elected,                       noncontiguous properties
                                         There is a subscriber       properties under                            under one ownership and
                                         (26.3.2, 26.3.3, and        various ownership                           responsible to the owner of
                                         26.3.4).                    monitored by a remote                       the protected property
                                                                       supervising station         (26.4.2.1 and 26.4.2.2)
   Listing     Equipment listed for      Equipment listed for the      (26.5.1.1 and 26.5.1.2)   Equipment listed for use
                 the use intended          use intended (10.3).      Equipment listed for use
NLY Design       (10.3)                     Compliance                 intended (10.3)             intended (10.3)
O Compatibility                            documentation (26.3.4).
L USE PerformanceAccording to Code by                                According to Code by        According to Code by
                 experienced persons     According to Code by          experienced persons         experienced persons
      and         (10.5.1)                 experienced persons          (10.5.1)                    (10.5.1)
                                            (10.5.1)
 A limitations Detector devices                                      Detector devices pulling    Detector devices pulling power
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Documentationpulling power fromDetector devices pullingpower from initiatingfrom initiating or signaling
                 initiating or             power from initiating       or signaling circuits       circuits listed for control unit
                 signaling circuits        or signaling circuits       listed for control unit     (10.3.3)
                 listed for control        listed for control unit     (10.3.3)
                 unit (10.3.3)             (10.3.3)                                              85% and 110% of the
                                                                                                   nameplate rated input
               85% and 110% of the       85% and 110% of the         85% and 110% of the           voltage, 32°F (0°C) and
                 nameplate rated           nameplate rated input       nameplate rated input       120°F (49°C) ambient
                 input voltage, 32°F       voltage, 32°F (0°C) and     voltage, 32°F (0°C) and     temperature, 85% relative
                 (0°C) and 120°F           120°F (49°C) ambient        120°F (49°C) ambient        humidity at 86°F (30°C)
                 (49°C) ambient            temperature, 85%            temperature, 85%            (10.3.5)
                 temperature, 85%          relative humidity at        relative humidity at
                 relative humidity at      86°F (30°C) (10.3.5)        86°F (30°C) (10.3.5)      Authority having jurisdiction
                 86°F (30°C) (10.3.5)                                                              notified of new or changed
                                         Authority having            Authority having              specifications, wiring
               Authority having            jurisdiction notified of    jurisdiction notified of    diagrams, battery
                 jurisdiction notified     new or changed              new or changed              calculations, floor plans.
                 of new or changed         specifications, wiring      specifications, wiring      Statement from contractor
                 specifications, wiring    diagrams, battery           diagrams, battery           that system meets
                 diagrams, battery         calculations, floor         calculations, floor         manufacturer's published
                 calculations, floor       plans. Statement from       plans. Statement from       instructions and NFPA
                 plans. Statement          contractor that system      contractor that system      requirements (7.5.2). Record
                 from contractor that      meets manufacturer's        meets manufacturer's        of completion (7.5.6). Results
                 system meets              published instructions      published instructions      of evaluation required in
                 manufacturer's            and NFPA                    and NFPA
                 published                 requirements (7.5.2).       requirements (7.5.2).
                 instructions and
               NFPA requirements         Record of completion        Record of completion                        23.4.3.1 (23.4.3.3).
               (7.5.2). Record of        (7.5.6). Results of         (7.5.6). Results of
               completion (7.5.6).       evaluation required in      evaluation required in
               Results of evaluation     23.4.3.1 (23.4.3.3).        23.4.3.1 (23.4.3.3).
               required in 23.4.3.1
               (23.4.3.3).

Supervising    None                      UL 827-compliant for the    Communications centers      Fire-resistive, detached
  station                                  supervising station and     or other location           building or cut-off room not
   facilities                              any subsidiary station      acceptable to the           near or exposed to hazards.
                                           (26.3.5.1 and 26.3.5.2)     authority having            Access restricted, NFPA 10,
                                                                       jurisdiction (26.5.3)       26-hour emergency lighting
                                                                                                   (26.4.3).

                                                                                                                                       (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-288                                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table A.26.1 Continued

Attribute               Protected                       Central Station        Remote Supervising Station            Proprietary
                         Premises                            Service                    Alarm System            Supervising Station
                   Fire Alarm System
                                                        Alarm System                                               Alarm System

Testing and   Chapter 14                           Chapter 14. Pass code       Chapter 14                  Chapter 14
maintenance                                          must be provided to
                                                     place system into test
                                                     mode (26.3.8.3.5.6).

Runner service No                                  Yes                         No                          Yes
                                                   Alarm ­­ arrive at the                                  Alarm -- arrive at the
ONLY Operations and                                  protected premises                                      protected premises within
E management  None                                   within 2 hours where      None                          2 hours where equipment
              None                                   equipment needs to be                                   needs to be reset.
   requirements                                      reset.                    Minimum of two persons         Guard's tour -- 30 minutes.
              Control unit and                        Guard's tour ­­            on duty at supervising       Supervisory-- 2 hours.
US Staff        command center                       30 minutes.                 station at all times.        Trouble -- 4 hours.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-41DE5BD47BC8} Monitor(10.14.1 and 10.14.2)Supervisory ­­ 2 hours.Other duties permitted(26.4.6.1.6)
IV supervisory                                        Trouble -- 4 hours.        per the authority
              None                                   (26.3.8)                    having jurisdiction       Supervising station is under
  signals     None                                 Prime contractor              (26.5.5).                   same ownership and
                                                     provides all elements of                                management responsibility
D Retransmission                                     central station service   Control unit, command         as premises being
IN of signals                                        under a variety of          center, and remote          supervised(26.4.2.1)
FOR Retransmission                                   contractual                 supervising station
time                                                 arrangements (26.3.3)       (10.14.1 and 10.14.2)     Two operators of which one
                                                   Minimum of two persons                                    may be the runner. When
                                                     on duty at supervising    Alarm to public service       runner is not in attendance
                                                     station. Operation and      communications center       at station, time between
                                                     supervision primary         when monitored              contact not to exceed
                                                     task (26.3.7).              privately. Supervisory      15 minutes. Primary duties
                                                                                 and trouble signals to      are monitoring alarms and
                                                   Control unit, command         owner's designated          operations of station (26.4.5).
                                                     center, and central         representative (26.5.6).
                                                     station (10.14.1 and                                  Control unit, command center,
                                                     10.14.2)                  Alarm -- immediate.           and proprietary supervising
                                                                                                             station (10.14.1 and 10.14.2)
                                                   Alarm to public service
                                                     communications center                                 Alarm to public service
                                                     and subscriber.                                         communications center and
                                                      Supervisory, trouble,                                  plant brigade. Supervisory,
                                                     and guard service to                                    trouble, and guard service to
                                                     designated personnel                                    designated personnel
                                                     (26.3.8).                                               (26.4.6.1.6).

                                                   Alarm -- immediate.                                     Alarm -- immediate.
                                                   Supervisory --              Supervisory --              Supervisory -- immediate.
                                                   immediate.                  immediate.                  Guard's tour supervisory --
                                                   Guard's tour                Trouble -- immediate.       at once.
                                                   supervisory -- without      (26.5.6)                    Trouble -- immediate.
                                                   unreasonable delay.                                     (26.4.6.1.6)
                                                   Trouble -- immediate.
                                                   (26.3.8)

Records       Current year and 1                   Complete records of all     At least 1 year (26.5.8.1). Complete records of all signals
              year after (7.7.1)                   signals received must                                   received shall be retained for
2019 Edition                                       be retained for at least                                at least 1 year. Reports
                                                   1 year. Reports                                         provided of signals received
                                                   provided of signals                                     to authority having
                                                   received to authority                                   jurisdiction in a form it finds
                                                   having jurisdiction in a                                acceptable (26.4.7).
                                                   form it finds acceptable
                         Shaded text = Revis(io2n6s..3.9). = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 ANNEX A                                                                 72-289

Initiating device Signaling line Signaling line    Fire alarm systems where the master control
                                                   unit is neither integral to nor collocated with
circuits  circuit         circuit interface        the supervising station.

                          Control                               Note: Transmitter might be integrated with the control.
                            unit

          Signaling line

          Y circuit
                                                   Transmitter  Transmission  Subsidiary

                                      Master                    channel                          Ccohmamnnuenlications
                                      control

                                        unit
                          NL Chapter 23                                       station

                                                                                   (where used)
                                                                Transmission channel
                                                                              SE OSupervising Station
                                                                Chapter 26                                         Alarm SystemSupervising
                                                                                                    station

                AL U Supervising Station
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Alarm System
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Initiating device
IV circuits
          Signaling line Signaling line
     INDSignaling line                             Fire alarm systems where the master control
FOR circuitcircuit        circuit interface        unit is integral to or collocated with the
                                                   supervising station at the protected premises.
                          Control
                            unit                        Supervising
                                                           station
                                          Master
                                          control

                                            unit

                          Chapter 23                            Chapter 26

FIGURE A.26.1.1 Supervising Station Alarm System.                                                                        2019 Edition
Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-290        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N A.26.2.4.1.3 If a carbon monoxide detector cannot be reset in              in accordance with Section 26.3. This is often misunderstood
accordance with Chapter 14, it could indicate that carbon                    by code users, owners, and AHJs, who think that merely specify-
monoxide is still present in the premises. Until such time that              ing that these systems be monitored by a central station with a
carbon monoxide can be excluded as the source of the alarm,                  fire alarm listing gets them full central station service. Full
the assumption should be that carbon monoxide is present and                 compliance with central station alarm system requirements
appropriate life safety precautions should be followed.                      involves using alarm companies with fire alarm listings and
                                                                             having the listing organization certify the protected premises
A.26.2.5.2.2 Scheduled impairments include interruptions                     alarm system.
caused by construction or building damage. In addition, natu-
ral disasters can result in long-term system impairments that N A.26.3.4.1 The documentation in this section should not be
are not intended to require 24-hour reminders.                               confused with the documentation required in Chapter 7, which
                                                                             is typically provided by the alarm company and covers the
A.26.2.7 Changing where signals go from an existing to a new                 design, acceptance, and completion of new systems. Instead the
or different supervising station facility is sometimes done                  documentation in this section is provided by the listing organi-
simply by changing a call-forward phone number. Or, within a                 zation and could be in the form of a certificate, placard, or
supervising station, a new receiving computer and software can               other document used by the listing organization.
                                                                             A.26.3.4.2(2) The record of completion (see Chapter 10) can be
Y be constructed and lines changed over. Often, the account data             used to fulfill this requirement.
                                                                             A.26.3.4.5 It is the prime contractor's responsibility to remove
are manually entered into the new system. Sometimes the data                 all compliance markings (certification markings or placards)
                                                                             when a service contract goes into effect that conflicts in any way
L are transferred electronically. Errors can be made, causing the            with the requirements of 26.3.4.
                                                                             A.26.3.4.6 The prime contractor should be aware of statutes,
supervising station to get undefined alarms or incorrect                     public agency regulations, or certifications regarding alarm
                                                                             systems that might be binding on the subscriber. The prime
N account data, resulting in incorrect response by the supervising           contractor should identify for the subscriber which agencies
                                                                             could be an authority having jurisdiction and, if possible, advise
station. When such changes are made, the only viable way to                  the subscriber of any requirements or approvals being manda-
                                                                             ted by these agencies.
O ensure correct operation is to conduct an end-to-end test.
                                                                                The subscriber has the responsibility for notifying the prime
A.26.2.7.1 The phrase "notified in writing" can include any                  contractor of those private organizations that are being desig-
                                                                             nated as an authority having jurisdiction. The subscriber also
E form of correspondence that can be verified upon request,                  has the responsibility to notify the prime contractor of changes
                                                                             in the authority having jurisdiction, such as where there is a
such as a letter, fax, email or other means of documented trans-             change in insurance companies. Although the responsibility is
                                                                             primarily the subscriber's, the prime contractor should also
S fer of information from one entity to another.                             take responsibility for seeking out these private authority(ies)
U A.26.3.2 There are related types of contract service that often            having jurisdiction through the subscriber. The prime contrac-
                                                                             tor is responsible for maintaining current records on the
are provided from, or controlled by, a central station but that              authority(ies) having jurisdiction for each protected premises.

L are neither anticipated by, nor consistent with, the provisions               The most prevalent public agency involved as an authority
                                                                             having jurisdiction with regard to alarm systems is the local fire
of 26.3.2. Although 26.3.2 does not preclude such arrange-                   department or fire prevention bureau. These are normally city
                                                                             or county agencies with statutory authority, and their approval
A ments, a central station company is expected to recognize,                 of alarm system installations might be required. At the state
                                                                             level, the fire marshal's office is most likely to serve as the
provide for, and preserve the reliability, adequacy, and integrity           public regulatory agency.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U of those supervisory and alarm services intended to be in   The most prevalent private organizations involved as authori-

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} accordance with the provisions of 26.3.2.

ID A.26.3.4 The terms certificated and placarded, which appeared

in previous editions of NFPA 72, were considered by some to be

IV too specific to two listing organizations and were replaced with

more generic wording. The concept of providing documenta-
tion to indicate ongoing compliance of an installed system

D continues to be reflected by the current language.
IN There are two distinct services offered by organizations that

list fire alarm service provided by prime contractors and central
stations. The first is the listing of these alarm services, which
requires the companies to demonstrate they have the knowl-

R edge and ability to install, test, service, and maintain central

station alarm systems and/or monitor and appropriately

O retransmit on receipt of various signals from protected prem-
Fises alarm systems.
The second part of the service provided by listing organiza-                 ties having jurisdiction are insurance companies. Others
tions is the certification of individual protected premises fire             include insurance rating bureaus, insurance brokers and
alarm systems to bring the alarm systems under their ongoing                 agents, and private consultants. It is important to note that
audit inspection program or systematic follow-up program.                    these organizations have no statutory authority and become
Under this program, systems are certified by the listing organi-             authorities having jurisdiction only when designated by the
zation, and documentation of this is to be provided, posted,                 subscriber.
and handled as described in 26.3.4 through 26.3.4.8. The
method used to document compliance with this portion of the                     With both public and private concerns to satisfy, it is not
program varies among listing organizations and includes the                  uncommon to find multiple authorities having jurisdiction
issuance of certificates, placards, or other documentation.                  involved with a particular protected premises. It is necessary to
                                                                             identify all authorities having jurisdiction in order to obtain all
There is nothing in this Code that requires all protected                    the necessary approvals for a central station alarm system instal-
premises alarm systems monitored by a listed central station to              lation.
be tested, maintained, serviced, monitored, and responded to

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                             ANNEX A                                                                             72-291

The phrase "in writing" can include any form of correspond-                                          Section 26.5, and Chapter 27, or, for proprietary supervising
ence that can be verified upon request, such as a letter, fax,                                       stations serving only contiguous properties, a means in the
email or other means of documented transfer of information                                           form of a municipal fire alarm box installed within 50 ft
from one entity to another.                                                                          (15.2 m) of the proprietary supervising station in accordance
                                                                       with Chapter 27 can be permitted.
A.26.3.6.6 Two telephone lines (numbers) at the central             N A.26.4.4.1.3 Depending on a building's size and configura-
station connected to the public switched telephone network or                                        tion, specific location information received by the proprietary
a managed facilities-based voice network, each having its own
telephone instrument connected, and two telephone lines                                              supervising station could be warranted. This information could
(numbers) available at the communications center to which a                                          assist responding individuals by allowing them to respond
central station operator can retransmit an alarm meet the                                            directly to areas of the building where signals have been initi-
intent of this requirement.                                                                          ated. An example of a building where this might be beneficial
                                                                                                     might be a multi-floor building or one with a large building
   A.26.3.8.3.1(1) Nothing in this section is intended to prevent                                    footprint. Signals from smaller buildings, such as a fast food
   communication with the subscriber in less than 15 minutes                                         restaurant or a gas station convenience store, would likely only
   from the receipt of the signal.                                                                   need to be general in nature. It should be noted that this
                                                                                                     section does not specifically call for point identification, but
Y A.26.3.8.3.3 It is anticipated that the central station will first                                 the specific device location information provided by such a
L attempt to notify designated personnel at the protected prem-                                      system would meet the requirements of the section.
                                                                                                     A.26.4.4.3 Proprietary station procedures should include peri-
   ises. When such notification cannot be made, it might be                                          odic review of nonrestored signals. One method for such a
                                                                                                     review could be by the use of equipment that would automati-
N appropriate to notify law enforcement or the fire department,                                      cally redisplay the information.
                                                                                                     A.26.4.6.1.3.3 Regardless of the type of retransmission facility
   or both. For example, if a valve supervisory signal is received                                   used, telephone communications between the proprietary
                                                                                                     supervising station and the fire department should be available
O where protected premises are not occupied, it is appropriate to                                    at all times and should not depend on a switchboard operator.
                                                                                                     A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5) The phrase "written notice" can include any
   notify the police.                                                                                form of correspondence that can be verified upon request,
                                                                                                     such as a letter, fax, email or other means of documented trans-
E A.26.3.8.3.3(1) The term immediately in this context is inten-                                     fer of information from one entity to another.
                                                                                                     A.26.5.2.2(1) Chapter 14 permits the building owner or his
   ded to mean "without unreasonable delay." Routine handling                                        designated representative to perform these services if they are
                                                                                                     qualified. In this situation, the documentation could be a
S should take a maximum of 4 minutes from receipt of a supervi-                                      declaration of qualification signed by the building owner.
                                                                                                     Multiple service providers are permitted.
   sory signal by the central station until the initiation of commu-                                 A.26.5.3 As a minimum, the room or rooms containing the
                                                                                                     remote supervising station equipment should have a 1-hour fire
U nications with a person(s) designated by the subscriber.                                           rating, and the entire structure should be protected by an
                                                                                                     alarm system complying with Chapter 23.
   A.26.3.8.3.4(1) The term immediately in this context is inten-
                                                                                                        As a useful guide for determining the nature of the design
L ded to mean "without unreasonable delay." Routine handling                                         and integrity necessary to achieve proper protection, the
                                                                                                     remote supervising station building or that portion of a build-
   should take a maximum of 4 minutes from receipt of a trouble                                      ing occupied by a remote supervising station should compare
                                                                                                     the construction, fire protection, restricted access, emergency
A signal by the central station until initiation of the investigation                                lighting, and power facilities to the requirements stated in the
                                                                                                     latest edition of ANSI/UL 827, Standard for Central-Station Alarm
   by telephone.                                                                                     Services.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.26.3.8.3.5.3 The term immediately in this context is inten-
ID ded to mean "without unreasonable delay." Routine handling

   should take a maximum of 4 minutes from receipt of a trouble

IV signal by the central station until initiation of the investigation

   by telephone.
   A.26.4.3.1 Consideration should be given to providing the

D following features for a proprietary supervising station location:
IN (1) Fire resistive construction meeting the requirements of

          adopted building codes
   (2) Air handling systems isolated from common building

          systems

 R As a useful guide for determining the nature of the design
Oand integrity necessary to achieve proper protection, the

   proprietary supervising station building or that portion of a

Fbuilding occupied by a proprietary supervising station should
compare the construction, fire protection, restricted access,                                           If the remote supervising station is located within an emer-
emergency lighting, and power facilities to the requirements                                         gency response agency (ERA), the ERA should consider meet-
stated in the latest edition of ANSI/UL 827, Standard for Central-                                   ing the requirements of Chapter 4 of NFPA 1221.
Station Alarm Services.

A.26.4.3.6 It is the intent of this Code that the operator within                                    A.26.5.3.1.4 A listed central station might be considered an
the proprietary supervising station should have a secure means                                       acceptable alternate location for receipt of fire alarm, supervi-
of immediately retransmitting any signal indicative of a fire to                                     sory, and trouble signals.

the public fire department communications center. Automatic                                          A.26.5.3.2 A listed central station might be considered an
retransmission using an approved method installed in accord-                                         acceptable alternate location for receipt of trouble signals.
ance with Sections 26.3 through 26.5, and Chapter 27 is the                                          A.26.6.1 Refer to Table A.26.6.1 for communications methods.
best method for proper retransmission. However, a manual
means can be permitted to be used, consisting of either a
manual connection following the requirements of Section 26.3,

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-292                                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table A.26.6.1 Communications Methods for Supervising Stations

        Criteria             Performance-Based              Digital Alarm Communicator       Two-Way Radio Frequency         One-Way Private Radio
                             Technologies 26.6.3                         Systems              (RF) Multiplex Systems         Alarm Systems 26.6.5.2
                                                                           26.6.4                        26.6.5.1

FCC approval when            Yes                                 Yes                                     Yes                           Yes
applicable

Conform to NFPA 70           Yes                                 Yes                                     Yes                           Yes

Monitoring for integrity of  Monitor for integrity          Both the premises unit and       Systems are periodically        Test signal from every
the transmission and                                        the system unit monitor for      polled for end-to-end           transmitter once every
communications channel                                      integrity in a manner            communications                  24 hours
                                                            approved for the means of        integrity.
LY Annunciate, at the                                          transmission employed. A
   supervising station, the  Within 60 minutes for a           single signal received on     Not exceed 90 seconds           Only monitor the quality of
   degradation and              single communication           each incoming DACR line          from the time of the            signal received and
N restoration of the            path and within 6 hours        once every 6 hours.              actual failure                  indicate if the signal falls
   transmission or              for multiple                Within 4 minutes using                                              below minimum signal
O communications channel        communication paths            alternate phone line to                                          quality specified in Code
Redundant communication                                        report the trouble
                             Systems where the                                               Redundant path not              Minimum of two
E path where a portion of       transmitter at the local    Employ a combination of two         required -- supervising         independent RF paths
                                premises unit detects a        separate transmission            station always indicates a      must be simultaneously
   the transmission or          communication failure,         channels alternately tested      communications failure          employed
                                the premises unit will         at intervals not exceeding
S communications channel        annunciate the failure         6 hours                       Backup path not required        No requirement, because
                                within 200 seconds of the                                                                       the quality of the signal
   cannot be monitored for      failure                     When two phone lines are                                            is continuously
   integrity                                                   used, test alternately every                                     monitored
                             Where duplicate equipment         6 hours. Testing for other
U Interval testing of the       not provided, spare            back-up technologies, see     Not required -- always          Monitor the
   backup path(s)               hardware required so a          26.6.4.1.4(B).                  annunciated at the              interconnection of the
                                repair can be effected                                          supervising station that        premises unit elements
AL Annunciation of              within 30 minutes.          Indication of failure at            initiates corrective action     of transmitting
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U communication failure or                   premises due to line failure                                     equipment, and indicate
                             512 independent alarm             or failure to communicate     Where duplicate                    a failure at the premises
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ability to communicate atsystems on a system unitafter from 5 to 10 dialingequipment not                  or transmit a trouble
                                with no backup.                attempts                         provided, spare                 signal to the supervising
ID the protected premises                                                                       hardware required so a          station.
DIV Time to restore signal-                                 Spare digital alarm                 repair can be effected
                                                               communicator receivers           within 30 minutes            Where duplicate
   receiving, processing,                                      required for switchover to                                       equipment not
                                                               backup receiver in                                               provided, spare
IN display, and recording                                      30 seconds. One backup                                           hardware required so a
                                                               system unit for every five                                       repair can be effected
   equipment                                                   system units.                                                    within 30 minutes

OR Loading capacities for                                   See Table 26.6.4.2.2(D) for
   system units and                                            the maximum number of
Ftransmission and                                              transmitters on a hunt
                             Unlimited if you can                                            512 buildings and premises      512 buildings and premises
                                                                                                on a system unit with no        on a system unit with no
                                                                                                backup. Unlimited if you        backup. Unlimited if you
communications channels                                     group in a system unit           can switch to a backup in       can switch to a backup
                             switch to a backup in                                           30 seconds.                     in 30 seconds.
                             30 seconds.

End-to-end communication     90 seconds from initiation of  Off-hook to on-hook not to       90 seconds from initiation      90% probability to receive
   time for an alarm            alarm until displayed to       exceed 90 seconds per            until it is recorded            an alarm in 90 seconds,
                                the operator and recorded      attempt. 10 attempts                                             99% probability in
                                on a medium from which         maximum. 900 seconds                                             180 seconds, 99.999%
                                the information can be         maximum for all attempts.                                        probability in
                                retrieved                                                                                       450 seconds

Record and display rate of   Not slower than one every 10 Not addressed                      When any number of              When any number of
   subsequent alarms at         additional seconds                                              subsequent alarms come          subsequent alarms come
   supervising station                                                                          in, record at a rate not        in, record at a rate not
                                                                                                slower than one every           slower than one every
                                                                                                additional 10 seconds           additional 10 seconds

                                                                                                                                             (continues)

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                            ANNEX A                                                                          72-293

 Table A.26.6.1 Continued

Criteria                    Performance-Based               Digital Alarm Communicator         Two-Way Radio Frequency        One-Way Private Radio
                            Technologies 26.6.3                          Systems                (RF) Multiplex Systems        Alarm Systems 26.6.5.2
                                                                           26.6.4                          26.6.5.1

Signal error detection and  Signal repetition, parity       Signal repetition, digital parity  Not addressed                  Not addressed
   correction                  check, or some equivalent       check, or some equivalent
                               means of error detection        means of signal verification
                               and correction must be          must be used.
                               used.

Path sequence priority      No need for prioritization of The first transmission attempt Not addressed                        Not addressed
                            paths. The requirement is       uses the primary channel.
                               that both paths are
    Carrier diversity          equivalent.                  Where long distance service        Not addressed                  Not addressed
                                                               (including WATS) is used,       Not addressed
ONLY Throughput probability If a transmitter shares a          the second telephone                                           90% probability to receive
USE Unique premises identifier transmission or                 number must be provided         Yes                               an alarm in 90 seconds,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-AB3L68-41DE5BD47BC8} Unique flawscommunication channelby a different long distanceNone addressed            99% probability in
IVID Signal priority           with other transmitters, it     service provider where          Chapter 1 on fundamentals         180 seconds, 99.999% in
OR IND Sharing communications  must have a unique              there are multiple providers.                                     probability 450 seconds
Fequipment on premises         transmitter identifier.                                            requires that alarm
                                                            Demonstrate 90% probability           signals take priority over  Yes
                            From time to time, there           of a system unit immediately       supervisory signals
                               may be unique flaws in a        answering a call or follow         unless there is sufficient  None addressed
                               communication system.           the loading in Table               repetition of the alarm
                               Unique requirements             26.6.4.2.2(D). One-way             signal to prevent the loss  Chapter 1 on
                               must be written for these       radio backup demonstrates          of an alarm signal.            fundamentals requires
                               unique flaws.                   90% probability of              Not addressed                     that alarm signals take
                                                               transmission.                                                     priority over supervisory
                            If the communication                                                                                 signals unless there is
                               methodology is shared        Yes                                                                  sufficient repetition of
                               with any other usage, all                                                                         the alarm signal to
                               alarm transmissions must     If call forwarding is used to                                        prevent the loss of an
                               preempt and take                communicate to the                                                alarm signal.
                               precedence over any other       supervising station, verify
                               usage. Alarm signals take       the integrity of this feature                                  Not addressed
                               precedence over                 every 4 hours.
                               supervisory signals.
                                                            Chapter 1 on fundamentals
                            If the transmitter is sharing      requires that alarm signals
                               on-premises                     take priority over
                               communications                  supervisory signals unless
                            equipment, the shared              there is sufficient repetition
                                                               of the alarm signal to
                                                               prevent the loss of an alarm
                                                               signal.

                                                            Disconnect outgoing or
                                                               incoming telephone call
                                                               and prevent its use for
                                                            outgoing telephone calls
                            equipment must be listed        until signal transmission has
                            for the purpose                 been completed.
                            (otherwise the transmitter
                            must be installed ahead of
                            the unlisted equipment).

A.26.6.2.2 It is not the intent of Section 26.6 to limit the use of  including those that deal with such factors as reliability, moni-
listed equipment using alternate communications methods,             toring for integrity, and listing. It is further expected that suita-
provided these methods demonstrate performance characteris-          ble proposals stating the requirements for such technology will
tics that are equal to or superior to those technologies descri-     be submitted for inclusion in subsequent editions of this Code.
bed in Section 26.6. Such demonstration of equivalency is to be      A.26.6.2.3 The communications cloud is created by multiple
evidenced by the equipment using the alternate communica-            telephone lines and multiple paths on the Internet. Under
tions methods meeting all the requirements of Chapter 10,

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-294                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

these circumstances, the requirements of Chapters 10 and 14,                      wireless network is always available without having to "dial,"
as required by 26.1.2, do not apply to devices comprising the                     and large amounts of data can be efficiently transmitted.
communications cloud.                                                             However the data passed using GPRS or CDMA is not that of
                                                                                  coded tones such as DTMF (Contact ID), but is computer type
A.26.6.3 Certain legacy technologies (active multiplex, McCul-                    messages similar to IP.
loh, directly connected non-coded and private microwave)
have been removed from the text of the document. Existing                         When using digital cellular, a DACT might or might not be
systems utilizing these technologies are acceptable, because all                  used.
these technologies also comply with the general provisions of
26.6.3.                                                                              For example, the digital cellular device might be used to
                                                                                  backup the DACT or, if properly supervised, be used as a stand-
The object of 26.6.3 is not to give details of specific technolo-                 alone device. If used, the DACT is connected to a digital cellu-
gies but rather give basic operating parameters of the transmis-                  lar radio device that connects to the cellular network by means
sion supervision rates of technologies. The following list                           of an antenna. The digital cellular radio device is constantly
represents examples of current technologies that can be config-                      connecting to the wireless network and is always ready to
ured to meet the requirements and the intent of 26.6.3:                              attempt to transmit to a destination address without having to
                                                                                     "dial" a number. The radio device recognizes that the alarm
Y (1) Transmitters using IP (Internet Protocol)                                      panel is attempting to place a call by the DACT's "off-hook"
L (2) IP transmission over the public open Internet or over                          signaling. The radio device accepts the DACT tone signaling,
                                                                                     converts it into a packeted data stream, and sends the packets
       private IP facilities maintained by an organization for its                   into the wireless network for delivery to a pre-assigned destina-
                                                                                     tion address.
 N own use                                                                           A.26.6.3.5 When considering a fire alarm system utilizing a
                                                                                     single communication path to the supervising station, consider-
(3) Transmitters using various (non-dialup) digital cellular                         ation should be given to the risk exposure that results from the
                                                                                     loss of that path for any period of time and for any reason.
 O technology                                                                        Some of these outages can be regular and predicable and
                                                                                     others transitory.
   Wired IP Transmission. There are two types of wired IP trans-
                                                                                        One example of a single technology used to produce two
E mission devices. One where the IP network is connected                             paths is the use of a digital cellular premises unit communicat-
                                                                                     ing with two or more cell towers. In this case, the supervising
directly to the fire alarm control unit (integrated IP or native                     station and the protected premises must be made aware if
                                                                                     communications degrades to below two towers. Another exam-
S IP). The second uses an intermediary module that can include                       ple is the use of two different cellular carriers to produce the
                                                                                     two paths. Similarly, in this case the supervising station and the
the following:                                                                       protected must be made aware if communications degrades to
                                                                                     one carrier.
U (1) IP dialer capture module                                                       A.26.6.3.12 Most communications equipment is not specifi-
                                                                                     cally listed for fire alarm applications, but is listed in accord-
(2) IP data capture module (such as RS-232, keypad bus,                              ance with applicable product standard for general
                                                                                     communications equipment and is acceptable.
 L RS-485)                                                                        N· A.26.6.3.13.1 Shared equipment owned by or under the
                                                                                     control of the subscriber should provide 24 hours of secondary
(3) Relay contact monitoring module                                                  standby power.
                                                                                  N A.26.6.3.13.1.1 Shared equipment owned by or under the
A Devices referred to as "IP dialer capture modules" (an IP                          control of an approved managed facilities-based voice network
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U communicator used with a DACT) are transmission devices that     provider should supply 8 hours of secondary power.
                                                                                  N A.26.6.3.13.1.2 The requirement in 26.6.3.13.1.2 does not
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} connect to the DACT output of the fire alarm control unit and

ID convert the output data stream to IP (Internet protocol). As

such, they are considered to use IP technology in their connec-
tion to the IP network. Therefore they should be treated in this

IV Code under the requirements of 26.6.3, performanced-based

technologies, and not under the requirements of 26.6.4, digital
alarm communicator systems.

D Digital Cellular. To accommodate an increase in the demand
IN for mobile wireless communications as well as introducing new

services over that same network, wireless voice communications
no longer utilizes dedicated connections to pass voice band
frequencies. Current ubiquities methods such as 2G and 3G

R have established a new and different environment to operate.

In place of the voice band, the voice conversation is converted

O into a stream of bits and packaged within data packets that
Fconform to messaging protocols, packets are addressed to a
destination point, delivered into the network, received by the                    exempt first communications path transmitters and first
destination point, and are converted back into an intelligible                    communications path shared equipment necessary for the
voice-grade message. The message exchange through this wire-                      transmission of alarm, supervisory, trouble, and other signals
less data network is done through well known defined proto-                       located at the protected premises from the secondary power
cols such as "Global System for Mobile" communications                            capacity requirements of 26.6.3.13. This section does not
(GSM) for voice communications as well as Code Division                           permit the communications paths to be considered multiple
Multiple Access (CDMA) for both voice and data and General                        communication paths under 26.6.3.4.
Packet Radio Service (GPRS) mobile data services. These
protocols have been developed to operate in an optimal way                        A.26.6.4.1.1 Special care should be used when connecting a
for the intended application. For example, GSM is used to effi-                   DACT to a digital service such as DSL or ADSL. Filters or other
ciently establish voice-grade connections that deliver an appro-                  special equipment might be needed to communicate reliably.

priate level of intelligible voice quality, but might not be good                 A.26.6.4.1.3 To give the DACT the ability to disconnect an
enough to pass tones that represent data. Data transmission is
better served by GPRS and CDMA where a connection into the                        incoming call to the protected premises, telephone service
                                                                                  should be of the type that provides for timed-release discon-

2019 Edition           Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                            ANNEX A                                                                                      72-295

nect. In some telephone systems (step-by-step offices), timed-                                           increase the connected time for a signal and reduce
release disconnect is not provided.                                                                      effective hunt group capacity.
                                                                                                   (c) The clustering of active burglar alarm signals can
A.26.6.4.1.3(C) A DACT can be programmed to originate calls                                               generate high peak loads at certain hours.
to the DACR telephone lines (numbers) in any alternating
sequence. The sequence can consist of single or multiple calls                                     (d) Inappropriate scheduling of 6-hour test signals can
to one DACR telephone line (number), followed by transmis-                                                generate excessive peak loads.
sions on the alternate path or any combination thereof that is
consistent with the minimum/maximum attempt requirements                                    (2) Demonstration of a 90 percent probability of incoming
in 26.6.4.1.3(C).                                                                                  line availability can be accomplished by the following in-
                                                                                                   service monitoring of line activity:
A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6) Where two telephone lines (numbers) are                                         (a) Incoming lines are assigned to telephone hunt
                                                                                                         groups. When a DACT calls the main number of a
used, care should be taken to assign the primary DACT tele-                                              hunt group, it can connect to any currently availa-
   phone line (number) to a nonessential telephone line
   (number) at the protected premises so that the primary line                                            ble line in that hunt group.
   used in the premises is not unnecessarily interrupted.                                          (b) The receiver continuously monitors the "available"

Y A.26.6.4.1.5(4) Where two telephone lines (numbers) are                                                 status of each line. A line is available when it is wait-
L used, care should be taken to assign the primary DACT tele-                                             ing for an incoming call. A line is unavailable for
                                                                                                          any of the following reasons:
   phone line (number) to a nonessential telephone line                                                   i. Currently processing a call
                                                                                                          ii. Line in trouble
N (number) at the protected premises so that the primary line                                             iii. Audio monitoring (listen-in) in progress
                                                                                                          iv. Any other condition that makes the line input
   used in the premises is not unnecessarily interrupted.
                                                                                                                  unable to accept calls
O A.26.6.4.1.5(8) Because call forwarding requires equipment at                                    (c) The receiver monitors the "available" status of the

   a telephone company central office that could occasionally                                             hunt group. A hunt group is available when any line
                                                                                                          in it is available.
E interrupt the call forwarding feature, a signal should be initi-                                 (d) A message is emitted by the receiver when a hunt
                                                                                                          group is unavailable for more than 1 minute out of
   ated whereby the integrity of the forwarded telephone line                                             10 minutes. This message references the hunt
                                                                                                          group and the degree of overload.
S (number) that is being called by DACTs is verified every                                  A.26.6.5.1.4 The intent of the plurality of control sites is to
                                                                                            safeguard against damage caused by lightning and to minimize
   4 hours. This can be accomplished by a single DACT, either in                            the effect of interference on the receipt of signals. The control
                                                                                            sites can be co-located.
U service or used solely for verification, that automatically                               A.26.6.5.2 Originally the concept of one-way private radio was
                                                                                            codified for a one-way system requiring at least two receiving
   initiates and completes a transmission sequence to its associ-                           towers or repeaters. Other similar systems have been developed
                                                                                            that use this basic principle. Among them is the concept of the
L ated DACR every 4 hours. A successful signal transmission                                 "mesh network" where a premises transmitter can access multi-
                                                                                            ple nearby transmitters.
   sequence of any other type within the same 4-hour period                                    It is difficult to reliably test redundant paths on a mesh radio
                                                                                            network without significant impact on the system and consider-
A should be considered sufficient to fulfill this requirement.                              able efforts of time and personnel.
      Call forwarding should not be confused with WATS or 800                                  A remedy is to have the mesh network system equipment
                                                                                            generate a report at the protected premises or supervising
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U service. The latter, differentiated from the former by dialing          station showing redundant pathways. Additionally, the mesh
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} the 800 prefix, is a dedicated service used mainly for its toll-freesystem equipment at the protected premises and at the super-
                                                                                            vising station periodically determine the number of viable
   feature; all calls are preprogrammed to terminate at a fixed                             redundant paths and generate a trouble signal whenever the
   telephone line (number) or to a dedicated line.                                          number falls below two paths, as is required by 26.6.5.2.

IV A.26.6.4.2.2(A) The timed-release disconnect considerations

   as outlined in A.26.6.4.1.3 apply to the telephone lines

D (numbers) connected to a DACR at the supervising station.
      It might be necessary to consult with appropriate telephone

IN service personnel to ensure that numbers assigned to the

   DACR can be individually accessed even where they are
   connected in rotary (a hunt group).

R A.26.6.4.2.2(D) In determining system loading, Table

   26.6.4.2.2(D) can be used, or it should be demonstrated that

Othere is a 90 percent probability of incoming line availability.
FTable 26.6.4.2.2(D) is based on an average distribution of calls

   and an average connected time of 30 seconds per message.
   Therefore, where it is proposed to use Table 26.6.4.2.2(D) to
determine system loading, if any factors are disclosed that                                 A.26.6.5.2.2 It is intended that each RAT communicate with
could extend DACR connect time so as to increase the average                                two or more independently located RARSRs. The location of
connect time, the alternate method of determining system                                    such RARSRs should be such that they do not share common
loading should be used. Higher (or possibly lower) loadings                                 facilities.
might be appropriate in some applications.
                                                                                            NOTE: All probability calculations required for the purposes
(1) Some factors that could increase (or decrease) the                                      of Chapter 17 should be made in accordance with established
capacity of a hunt group are as follows:
                                                                                            communications procedures, should assume the maximum
                                                                                            channel loading parameters specified, and should further
(a) Shorter (or longer) average message transmission                                        assume that 25 RATs are actively in alarm and are being
time can influence hunt group capacity.
(b) The use of audio monitoring (listen-in) slow-scan                                       received by each RARSR.

video or other similar equipment can significantly

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-296                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.26.6.6.1 The signal information can be permitted to be                              typical building. As an example, equipment could be installed
provided in coded form. Records can be permitted to be used                           inside a building in a boiler room, basement, attic, and so
to interpret these codes.                                                             forth, where temperatures actually exceed ambient conditions
                                                                                      outside the building. It is recommended that the authority
A.26.6.6.2(4) Any signal that would dictate a different                               having jurisdiction consider all possible installation locations
response, such as carbon monoxide alarms or mass notification                         and environmental conditions and that the equipment selected
alarms, should be individually identifiable so the appropriate                        be designed to operate within the most extreme conditions to
response to the event can be initiated. There are more types of                       which it could be exposed.
alarms and other signals that are being received at supervising
stations and that require different responses by supervising                          A.27.4.3.3 Nonfederal radio frequencies are licensed by the
station operators. These signals could be other than fire, but                        Federal Communications Commission. Federal radio frequen-
still life safety in nature, and must be uniquely identified                          cies are assigned by the NTIA. Most frequencies available for
because their signal is indicative of a different response.                           FCC licensing require frequency coordination in order to limit
   A.26.6.6.3 An example of a critical assembly is an assembly in                     interference from other users. Authorities having jurisdiction
   which a malfunction prevents the receipt and interpretation of                     should use licensed, coordinated radio frequencies for wireless
                                                                                      networks in order to minimize interference.
Y signals by the supervising station operator.
L N A.26.6.6.4 In order to expedite repairs, it is recommended                           Outside of the United States similar regulatory bodies
                                                                                      provide coordination and licensing such as Industry Canada.
   that spare modules, such as printed circuit boards, displays, or                   A.27.5.2.5.1(1) Figure A.27.5.2.5.1(1) illustrates a Form 4A
                                                                                      arrangement.
N printers, be stocked at the supervising station.                                    A.27.5.2.5.1(2) Figure A.27.5.2.5.1(2) illustrates a Form 4B
                                                                                      arrangement.
   A.26.6.6.5 For all forms of transmission, the maximum time to                      A.27.5.2.5.1(3) Figure A.27.5.2.5.1(3) illustrates a Form 4C
                                                                                      arrangement. Refer to NFPA 1221.
O process an alarm signal should be 90 seconds. The maximum                           A.27.5.3 Subsection 27.5.3 provides requirements for circum-
                                                                                      stances in which a municipality or government agency has situ-
   time to process a supervisory signal should be 4 minutes. The                      ated a communications center at a location remote from the
                                                                                      alarm processing equipment for the public emergency alarm
E time to process an alarm or supervisory signal is defined as that                   reporting system. This might occur when the municipality or
                                                                                      government agency has moved the communications center to
   time measured from receipt of a signal until retransmission or                     combine services with other emergency dispatching, such as
                                                                                      police emergency and medical services, or to combine with
S subscriber contact is initiated.                                                    neighboring towns or cities (regionalization). In such cases, it
 U When the level of traffic in a supervising station system                          might be impractical to relocate the alarm processing equip-
                                                                                      ment.
   reaches a magnitude such that delayed response is possible,                        A.27.5.5.1.1 Figure A.27.5.5.1.1 illustrates a Type A receiving
   even if the loading tables or loading formulas of this Code are                    network.

L not exceeded, it is envisioned that it will be necessary to                         Utility            Rectifier
                                                                                                             or
   employ an enhanced method of processing.                                            distribution  ac             +     24-hour
                                                                                        system or          motor    -     battery
 A For example, in a system where a single DACR instrument                            engine-driven      generator
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U provided with fire and burglar alarm service is connected to
                                                                                      generator
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} multiple telephone lines, it is conceivable that, during certain

ID periods of the day, fire alarm signals could be delayed by the

   security signaling traffic, such as opening and closing signals.

IV Such an enhanced system would perform as follows, upon

   receipt of a signal:
   (1) Automatically process the signals, differentiating between

 D those that require immediate response by supervising

          station personnel and those that need only be logged

IN (2) Automatically provide relevant subscriber information to
          assist supervising station personnel in their response
   (3) Maintain a timed, unalterable log of the signals received

 R and the response of supervising station personnel to such

          signals

O A.27.1.7 Auxiliary alarm systems include the equipment at the
Fprotected premises as well as the equipment connecting it to
the public emergency alarm reporting system. While the opera-                                             Inverter
tional requirements relating to the signals sent off-premises fall                                           or
under the scope of Chapter 27, the requirements of Chapter 23                                                          -  To box
also apply.                                                                                              converter        circuit 1

A.27.2.1 When choosing from available options to implement                                               Inverter      +
a public emergency alarm reporting system, the operating                                                                      To box
agency should consider which of the choices would facilitate                                                 or
the maximum reliability of the system, where such a choice is                                            converter     -  circuit 2
not cost prohibitive.
A.27.2.3 Consideration should be given to the fact that devices                                           Inverter     +  To alarm
could be installed in areas that are exposed to higher or lower                                              or        -  circuit 1
temperatures, moisture, or other environmental conditions
that could be more severe than ambient conditions found in a                                             converter

                                                                                      FIGURE A.27.5.2.5.1(1) Form 4A.

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                    ANNEX A                                                                   72-297

   Utility                                                                   Poling required for transpondence-type (two-way) systems only.
distribution
                 ac  Rectifier     +              4-hour                                       Poling            Poling
  system                 or                                                                    device            device
                       motor
Manual or            generator     -              battery                    System No. 1                                System No. 2
automatic                                                                                Antenna                                     Antenna
 transfer

Engine-driven                                     +                          Receiver or                            Receiver or
                                                         To box
generator                           Inverter             circuit 1           transceiver                            transceiver
                                       or
                                                  -
                                   converter

                                    Inverter                                    Signal                                 Signal
                                       or                                    processing                             processing
                                                                             equipment                              equipment
                                   Y converter
                                                  +                            Graphic                               Graphic
                                                         To box               recording                             recording
                                                         circuit 2

                                                  -
       NL Inverter
                                                     or+                     Power                                  Power
                                                converterTo alarm            supply                                 supply

O FIGURE A.27.5.2.5.1(2) Form 4B.                        circuit 1
                                                  -
SE Utility

 distribution
  system or

U engine-driven
  generator
                 Automatic         Rectifier +                                                                 To power source
                  transfer
                                                                             FIGURE A.27.5.5.1.1 Type A System Receiving Networks.
                               ac
                                              or           To box
AL Engine-driven
  generator                        motor                   circuit 1
                                   generator -
                                                                             Antenna                             Antenna

                                   Rectifier +
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Engine-driven    To box
 IV generator                                 or
                                                           circuit 2
                                   motor
                                   generator -

                                   Rectifier +             To alarm           Receiver                  Receiver

                                              or           circuit 1         Transmitter               Transmitter

                     Automatic       motor        -                          Processor                 Processor
                      transfer     generator                                    Power                     Power
D A.27.5.5.1.4 Figure A.27.5.5.1.4 illustrates the separate func-               supply                    supply
IN tional requirements and power source requirements for

   systems that function with wireless network repeater systems in
   accordance with 27.5.5.1.4.

R A.27.5.5.3.3 See A.27.6.6.2.
O  A.27.6.1 There are three types of alarm boxes covered under
FChapter 27. They are the publicly accessible box, auxiliary box,
FIGURE A.27.5.2.5.1(3) Form 4C.

and master box.

(1) The publicly accessible box has a manual control that can                 Power Power                       Power Power
       be operated by the public. This type of alarm box is typi-             source source                     source source
       cally located outside on a pole or building and was previ-            (primary) (secondary)            (primary) (secondary)
       ously called a street box. The box type was renamed
       because it is not necessarily located on or near a street.            FIGURE A.27.5.5.1.4       Repeater Wireless Network/System.

(2) An auxiliary box is part of an auxiliary alarm system and                (3) The master box is a combination box that can be
       can be automatically activated either by initiating devices                  manually operated (publicly accessible) and automatically
       in limited applications or by a protected premises alarm                     activated by the auxiliary alarm system (auxiliary box).
       system (Chapter 23). An auxiliary box can be located                         The master box is typically located outside on a pole or
       inside or outside a building.                                                building.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-298        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.27.6.1.4 If the operating mechanism of a box creates suffi-                           cations center equipment (i.e., whether or not the system is
cient sound to be heard by the user, the requirements are satis-                        designed to receive alarms through manual or automatic
fied.                                                                                   ground operational facilities). In a radio box­type system,
                                                                                        receipt of the alarm by the communications center depends on
A.27.6.2 Publicly accessible alarm boxes were commonly refer-                           the proper operation of the radio transmitting and receiving
red to as "street boxes" in previous editions of the Code. Appli-                       equipment.
cations of these boxes are no longer limited to street locations.
                                                                                        A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2) The shunt-type system [see Figure
A.27.6.2.1.6 Where the intent is for complete coverage, it                              A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(a) and Figure A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(b)] is electrically
should not be necessary to travel in excess of one block or                             connected to, and is an integral part of, the public emergency
500 ft (150 m) to reach a box. In residential areas, it should not                      alarm reporting system. A ground fault on the auxiliary circuit
be necessary to travel in excess of two blocks or 800 ft (240 m)                        is a fault on the public emergency alarm reporting system
to reach a box.                                                                         circuit, and an accidental opening of the auxiliary circuit sends

A.27.6.2.1.10 The current supply for designating lights at                              a needless (or false) alarm to the communications center. An
boxes should be secured at lamp locations from the local elec-                          open circuit in the transmitting device trip coil is not indicated
tric utility company.                                                                   either at the protected property or at the communications
                                                                                        center. Also, if an initiating device is operated, an alarm is not
LY Alternating-current power can be permitted to be superim-                            transmitted, but an open circuit indication is given at the
                                                                                        communications center. If a public emergency alarm reporting
posed on metallic fire alarm circuits for supplying designating                         system circuit is open when a connected shunt-type system is
                                                                                        operated, the transmitting device does not trip until the public
N lamps or for control or activation of equipment devices for fire                      emergency alarm reporting system circuit returns to normal, at
                                                                                        which time the alarm is transmitted, unless the auxiliary circuit
alarm or other emergency signals, provided that the following                           is first returned to a normal condition.
conditions exist:
                                                                                           Additional design restrictions for shunt-type systems are
O (1) Voltage between any wire and ground or between one                                found in laws or ordinances.
       wire and any other wire of the system does not exceed                            A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(g) See Figure A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(b).
 E 150 volts, and the total resultant current in any line
       circuit does not exceed 14 ampere.                                               Radio or wired alarm circuit

S (2) Components such as coupling capacitors, transformers,                                                                                     Automatic
       chokes, or coils are rated for 600-volt working voltage and
 U have a breakdown voltage of at least twice the working                               Signal    Trip                                          Manual
       voltage plus 1000 volts.                                                         contacts  coil
                                                                                                                                                Trouble
L (3) There is no interference with fire alarm service under any                                                                                relay
       conditions.
                                                                                                                                                   Trouble
A A.27.6.2.1.11.2 Environmental and ambient conditions should                                                                                      circuit
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U be considered in the selection of the wiring method to be
                                                                                                                           -+
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} employed.                                                                                            Local

ID A.27.6.3.1.2 Environmental and ambient conditions should be                                           energy

considered in the selection of the wiring method to be

IV employed.

A.27.6.3.1.3 Figure A.27.6.3.1.3 shows the interconnecting

D wiring that is intended to meet Level 2 survivability.

A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1) The local energy-type system [see Figure

IN A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1)(a) and Figure A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1)(b)] is electrically

isolated from the public emergency alarm reporting system and
has its own power supply. The tripping of the transmitting

R device does not depend on the current in the system. In a

wired circuit, receipt of the alarm by the communications

O center when the circuit is accidentally opened depends on the
Fdesign of the transmitting device and the associated communi-
                                                                                        FIGURE A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1)(a) Local Energy-Type Auxiliary
                                                                                        Alarm System ­­ Radio or Wired.

                                                                                        Radio or wired alarm circuit      Alarm                 Alarm signal
                                                                                                                  Supply                        circuit

                                                                                                  relay                   relay

                   Interconnecting wiring                                                                                                       Automatic
              (minimum level 2 survivability)                                                                                                            Manual

      Auxiliary alarm                                                                                                            Trouble relay                    End-of-line
        control unit                                                                                                                                                 resistor

                                                                         Auxiliary box                                                          Trouble
                                                                        or master box                                                           circuit

FIGURE A.27.6.3.1.3 Interconnecting Wiring from Auxiliary                               Signal    Trip
Alarm System to Auxiliary Box or Master Box Installed in Rigid                          contacts  coil - + Trouble circuit
Metal Conduit, Intermediate Metal Conduit, or Electrical
Metallic Tubing.                                                                                          Local
                                                                                                         energy

                                                                                        FIGURE A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1)(b) Local Energy-Type Auxiliary
                                                                                        Alarm System with Supply and Alarm Relay ­­ Radio or Wired.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          ANNEX A                                                72-299

Wired alarm circuit  30 ohms maximum                                    NFPA 72 is a "minimum code." This chapter provides a
                                                                     number of requirements related to single- and multiple-station
                             #14      Automatic                      alarms and household fire alarm systems that are deemed to be
                                      (waterflow only)               the practical and necessary minimum for average conditions at
                                                                     the present state of the art.

                                      Manual                            Currently Available Smoke Alarm Technology. The technologies
                                                                     used in currently available smoke alarms include ionization
                                                                     smoke detection and photoelectric detection. These detection
                                                                     types are defined in 3.3.276.2 and 3.3.276.4 and are further
                                                                     explained in A.3.3.276.2 and A.3.3.276.4. Ionization smoke
Signal  Trip                                                         detection is more responsive to invisible particles produced by

contacts coil

FIGURE A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(a) Shunt-Type Auxiliary Alarm               most flaming fires. Photoelectric smoke detection is more
System (Permitted).                                                  responsive to the visible particles produced by most smoldering
LY Radio or wired alarm circuit                                      fire. Residential smoke alarms and commercial smoke detec-
                     ON Trouble relayAlarmAlarm signal               tors are currently available with either ionization technology or
                             relay    circuit                        photoelectric technology or a combination of both technolo-
                                                                     gies. The use of both technologies generally offers the advant-
                                      Automatic                      age of providing a faster response to both flaming and
                                              Manual                 smoldering fires, and is recommended for those who desire a
                                                                     higher level of protection than the minimum requirements of
                                                        End-of-line  this Code.
                                                           resistor
SE Signal                                                               Fatal home fires involving smoldering fires and flaming fires
U contacts                                                           occur at night and during the day. It is not possible to reliably
        Trip          -+                         Trouble             predict what type of fire will occur or at what hour of the day it
                     Local                       circuit             will occur. Therefore, the preference of one technology over
        coil                                                         the other on the basis of the expectation of a particular type of
                                    (Not permitted)                  fire (predominately smoldering or flaming) is not a sound basis
L FIGURE A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(b) Shunt-Type Auxiliary Alarmenergy       for selection. While the current consensus of experts suggests
                                                                     that neither technology offers an advantage when the fire type
System (Not Permitted).                                              is not known, there is a consensus that there would be a benefit
                                                                     to having both technologies since the type of fire cannot be
                                                                     predicted.

                                                                        Based on recent analysis of the full scale fire tests documen-
                                                                     ted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology in
                                                                     Report TN 1455-1-2008, Performance of Home Smoke Alarms, Anal-
                                                                     ysis of the Response of Several Available Technologies in Residential
                                                                     Fire Settings, the minimum provisions of the Code using either
                                                                     technology are considered to provide an adequate level of
                                                                     protection for most individuals who are not intimate with the
                                                                     fire and are capable of self rescue. This would include occu-
                                                                     pants in the room of fire origin for both flaming and smolder-
                                                                     ing fires who escape through the normal path of egress.
                                                                     Protection beyond the minimum provisions of the Code using
                                                                     both technologies should be considered for situations involving
                                                                     individuals who are not capable of self rescue or who might
                                                                     need additional time for escape. These situations might
                                                                     include families where extra time is needed to awaken or assist
                                                                     others.

                                                                        While it is true that ionization detection technology is more
A A.27.6.6.2 The transmission of an actual emergency-related
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U message, initiated at the same time it is preselected for a test

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} message, and, in turn, preempts said test message, must satisfy

ID the intent of 27.6.6.2.

   A.27.6.6.7 Examples of priority levels as follows:

IV (1) Priority 1 -- fire

   (2) Priority 2 -- ECS

D (3) Priority 3 -- medical

   (4) Priority 4 -- supervisory

IN (5) Priority 5 -- monitored for integrity signals

   (6) Priority 6 -- tamper
   (7) Priority 7 -- test

 R Additionally, within each signal category, additional priori-

   ties can be required such as Fire 1, Fire 2, Fire 3, and so forth.

OA.27.7.1.6.2 There could be environmental conditions that
Fnecessitate the use of rigid nonmetallic conduit.
A.27.7.3 All requirements for circuit protection do not apply        susceptible to nuisance alarms due to cooking, the use of this
to coded radio reporting systems. These systems do not use           technology should not be dismissed, particularly where the
metallic circuits.                                                   additional protection of both technologies is suggested. In
A.27.8.1 The public emergency alarm reporting system infra-          addition, there is no substantial evidence that suggests that
structure can be used to facilitate the operation of wide-area       either technology is more susceptible to nuisance alarms from
signaling, which might include voice, and which some                 bathroom steam. Provisions and guidance have been added to
communities now use for emergency notifications to the               29.11.3.4 to help minimize nuisance alarms from both sources.
public.                                                              This is important since smoke alarms that are disabled due to
                                                                     frequent nuisance alarms offer no protection whatsoever. A
                                                                     higher level of protection would be afforded by using both
A.29.1.1 Chapter 29 does not attempt to cover all equipment,         technologies in all locations required by this Code with addi-
methods, and requirements that might be necessary or advanta-        tional locations in other rooms of the dwelling. In considering
geous for the protection of lives and property from fire.            this, pending the availability of smoke alarms specifically

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-300                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

designed for nuisance alarm immunity, additional locations                    Few Facts at the Household Level," NFPA Fire Analysis Division,
within 20 ft of a cooking appliance should be minimized, espe-                July 2009).
cially for smoke alarms using ionization technology.
                                                                              Fire Safety in the Home. NFPA 72 is intended to provide reason-
While these considerations reflect the consensus of experts                   able safety for persons in family living units. Reasonable fire
based on currently available test data that allows analysis of                safety can be produced through the following three-point
tenability along with alarm response, full scale fire testing and             program:
nuisance alarm testing of current technologies has continued
and analysis of this data will also continue. In addition, new                (1) Minimizing fire hazards
technologies are being considered with the prospect of                        (2) Providing fire-warning equipment
enhanced detection response along with a higher immunity to                   (3) Having and practicing an escape plan

nuisance activations. The work of the industry and the NFPA                   Minimizing Fire Hazards. This Code cannot protect all persons
technical committee responsible for smoke alarm provisions                    at all times. For instance, the application of this Code might
   will be ongoing.                                                           not provide protection against the following three traditional
   A.29.1.2 An example of the applicable code within the NFPA                 fatal fire scenarios:
                                                                              (1) Smoking in bed
Y set of codes and standards is NFPA 101. Other codes such as                 (2) Leaving children home alone
                                                                              (3) Cleaning with flammable liquids such as gasoline
   local building codes are other examples to be considered.
                                                                                 However, Chapter 29 can lead to reasonable safety from fire
 L The requirements of Chapter 29 are intended to apply to                    when the three-point program is observed.
N installations in the following new and existing locations:
                                                                                 Fire-Warning Equipment. There are two types of fire to which
   (1) One- and two-family dwelling units                                     household fire-warning equipment needs to respond. One is a
                                                                              rapidly developing, high-heat fire. The other is a slow, smolder-
O (2) Sleeping rooms of lodging and rooming houses                            ing fire. Either can produce smoke and toxic gases.

   (3) Individual dwelling units of apartment buildings                          Family Escape Plan. There is often very little time between the
                                                                              detection of a fire and the time it becomes deadly. This interval
E (4) Guest rooms, sleeping rooms, and living areas within                    can be as little as 1 or 2 minutes. Thus, this Code requires
           guest suites of hotels and dormitories                             detection means to give a family some advance warning of the
                                                                              development of conditions that become dangerous to life
S (5) Day-care homes                                                          within a short period of time. Such warning, however, could be
                                                                              wasted unless the family has planned in advance for rapid exit
   (6) Residential board and care facilities                                  from their residence. Therefore, in addition to the fire-warning
                                                                              equipment, this Code assumes that the residents have devel-
U (7) Other locations where applicable laws, codes, or stand-                 oped and practiced an exit plan.
           ards specify a requirement for the installation of smoke
  L alarms                                                                       Planning and practicing for fire conditions with a focus on
   A.29.1.4 Installations in manufactured homes are under the                 rapid exit from the residence are important. Drills should be
                                                                              held so that all family members know the action to be taken.
A jurisdiction of The Department of Housing and Urban Devel-                  Each person should plan for the possibility that exit out of a
                                                                              bedroom window could be necessary. An exit out of the resi-
   opment (HUD). The rules for installation are addressed in the              dence without the need to open a bedroom door is essential.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Federal Manufactured Housing Construction Safety Standards   Household fires are especially dangerous at night when the
                                                                              occupants are asleep. Fires produce smoke and deadly gases
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (available at http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/mhs/   that can overcome occupants while they are asleep. Further-
                                                                              more, dense smoke reduces visibility. Most fire casualties are
ID mhshome.cfm).                                                              victims of smoke and gas inhalation rather than burns. To warn
                                                                              against a fire, Chapter 29 provides smoke detector (alarm)
 A.29.2 Fire Danger in the Home. In 2009, fire was the third lead-            requirements in accordance with 29.8.1, and the associated
                                                                              annex recommends heat or smoke detectors (alarms) in all
IV ing cause of unintentional injury deaths in the home and the               other major areas.

   sixth leading cause of unintentional injury deaths overall

D (Injury Facts, 2011, National Safety Council).
       Seventy-nine percent of the fire fatalities in 2015 resulted

IN from residential fires -- 82.7 percent resulted from fires in one-

   and two-family dwellings, including manufactured homes;
   15.5 percent were caused by apartment fires; and 1.7 percent

R resulted from fires in other residential occupancies ("Fire Loss

   in the United States during 2015," Hylton J.G. Haynes, NFPA

O Fire Analysis and Research Division).
       Approximately half (52 percent) of the home (dwellings and

Fapartments) fire fatalities resulted from fires reported between

   11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the common sleeping hours ("Home
Structure Fires," Marty Ahrens, NFPA Fire Analysis and                        A.29.3.3 This Code establishes minimum standards for the use
Research Division, September 2016).                                           of fire-warning equipment. The use of additional alarms or
                                                                              detectors over and above the minimum standard is encour-
   Almost three-quarters (71 percent) of all reported fire inju-              aged. The use of additional devices can result in a combination
ries occurred in the home, with more than one-half                            of equipment (e.g., a combination of single- and multiple-
(73 percent) in one- and two-family dwelling units (including                 station alarms or a combination of smoke alarms or smoke
manufactured housing), and more than one-fifth (27 percent)                   detectors that are part of a security/fire system and existing
apartments ("Fire Loss in the United States During 2015,"                     multiple-station alarms). Though a combination is allowed, one
Hylton J.G. Haynes, NFPA Fire Analysis and Research Division).                type of equipment must independently meet the requirements

   It is estimated that each household will experience five                   of the Code. Compliance with the requirements of the Code
(usually unreported) fires per lifetime and one in four fires                 cannot rely on the combination of the following fire-warning
serious enough to report to a fire department per lifetime ("A                equipment:

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                ANNEX A                                                                                   72-301

(1) Single-station alarms                                          On
(2) Multiple-station alarms
(3) Household fire alarm system (includes a security/fire
system with smoke alarms or smoke detectors)                       Off

   It is encouraged that the highest level of protection be used                (a) (b) (a) (b) (a)              (c)     (a)
where possible. For example, if multiple-station alarms are
                                                                                         Cycle                           Time (sec)

added to an occupancy with compliant single-station alarms,                  Key:
the multiple-station alarms should be installed to replace all of            Phase (a) signal is on for 0.5 sec ±10%
the single-station alarms. Similarly, if a monitored household               Phase (b) signal is off for 0.5 sec ±10%
fire alarm system is added to a house that has compliant                     Phase (c) signal is off for 1.5 sec ±10% [(c) = (a) + 2(b)]
multiple-station alarms, monitored smoke alarms or smoke                     Total cycle lasts for 4 sec ±10%

detectors should be installed to replace the multiple-station      FIGURE A.29.5.1(a) Temporal Pattern Parameters.

                                                                   On
   alarms or be installed to provide the same required coverage.
       The responsiveness of ionization- and photoelectric-type    Off

Y smoke alarms depends on a number of factors, including the            0       2     4              6                8  10 Time

   type of fire (smoldering, flaming), the chemistry of materials                                                                         (sec)

L involved in the fire, and the properties of the resulting smoke. FIGURE A.29.5.1(b) Temporal Pattern Imposed on
                                                                   Signaling Appliances That Emit Continuous Signal While
   Several fire safety organizations recommend that a consumer     Energized.

N utilize both ionization and photoelectric technologies in their  On

   home smoke alarm systems to permit the longest potential        Off

O escape times for nonspecific fire situations. This will not                0     2  4              6           8       10 Time (sec)

   preclude the development of new technology with equivalent

E performance.

 A.29.5.1 The use of the distinctive three-pulse temporal

S pattern fire alarm evacuation signal has been recommended by

   this Code since 1979. It has since been adopted as both an

U American National Standard [ANSI/ASA S3.41, American

   National Standard Audible Emergency Evacuation (E2) and Evacua-

L tion Signals with Relocation Instructions (ESRI)] and an Interna-

   tional Standard (ISO 8201, Audible Emergency Evacuation Signal).

 A Copies of both of these standards are available from:
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Standards Publication Fulfillment, P.O., Box 1020, Sewickly,
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} PA 15143-9998, Tel. 412-741-1979.

       For information about the Acoustical Society of America, or
   for how and why the three-pulse temporal pattern signal was

IV chosen as the international standard evacuation signal, contact

   Standards Secretariat, Acoustical Society of America, 35 Pine-

D lawn Road, Suite 114E, Melville, NY 11747, Tel. 531-490-0215,

   Email: asastds@aip.org.

 IN The standard fire alarm evacuation signal is a three-pulse

   temporal pattern using any appropriate sound. The pattern
   consists of the following in this order:

R (1) An "on" phase lasting 0.5 second ±10 percent.

   (2) An "off" phase lasting 0.5 second ±10 percent for three

 Osuccessive "on" periods.
F(3) An "off" phase lasting 1.5 seconds ±10 percent [see Figure
                                                                   FIGURE A.29.5.1(c) Temporal Pattern Imposed on Single-
                                                                   Stroke Bell or Chime.

A.29.5.1(a) and Figure A.29.5.1(b)]. The signal should be             A.29.5.5 It is recommended that the voice notification
                                                                      message be intelligible, audible, and appropriate for the
                                                                      hazard. Care should be taken to avoid excessive silence during
                                                                      the message. Figure A.29.5.5(a) through Figure A.29.5.5(c)
                                                                      provide examples of acceptable combinations of the emer-
                                                                      gency evacuation signal and voice messages.
                                                                   N A.29.5.6 Temporal pattern parameters with voice allowance
                                                                      are shown in Figure A.29.5.6(a), Figure A.29.5.6(b), and Figure
                                                                      A.29.5.6(c).
                                                                      A.29.5.8 Low frequency or tactile notification appliances such
                                                                      as bed shakers have been shown to be effective in waking those
                                                                      with normal hearing to profound hearing loss [CSE NIH
                                                                   report, 2005; Bruck and Thomas, 2009; Bruck, Thomas, and
repeated for a period appropriate for the purposes of              Ball, NFPA RF report, 2007].
evacuation of the building, but for not less than
180 seconds. A single-stroke bell or chime sounded at              A.29.5.10.1 As an example, governing laws, codes, or stand-
"on" intervals lasting 1 second ±10 percent, with a 2-             ards might require a certain number of accommodations be
second ±10 percent "off" interval after each third "on"            equipped for those with hearing loss or other disability.

stroke, is permitted [see Figure A.29.5.1(c)].                     A.29.5.10.1(2) It is not the intent of this section to preclude

   The minimum repetition time is permitted to be manually         devices that have been demonstrated through peer-reviewed
interrupted.                                                       research to awaken occupants with hearing loss as effectively as
                                                                   those using the frequency and amplitude specified in this
N A.29.5.3 The four pulse temporal pattern is illustrated in       section.
Figure A.29.5.3.
                                                                   A.29.5.10.2 Tactile notification appliances such as bed shakers
                                                                   have been shown to be effective in waking those with normal

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-302                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

On

Off

         Y 4 pulse (T4) CO alarm sound pattern cycle                                                          (a) (b) (a)
  L Key                                                                                                         Time (sec)
  N Phase (a) = 100 milliseconds (±10%).

                 Phase (b) = 100 milliseconds (±10%).
                 Phase (c) = 5 seconds (±10%), may increase to 60 seconds after 4 minutes.

O  FIGURE A.29.5.3 Four Pulse Temporal Pattern.
        (a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) (a)                                             (c)

SE T3 cycle
     U (1)
                        Alarm initiation -- eight T3 cycles minimum.                              Two T3 cycles minimum -- repeat as desired.
                        T3 cycle T3 cycle T3 cycle T3 cycle                     T3 cycle Voice -- 10-sec maximum T3 cycle T3 cycle
L FIGURE A.29.5.5(a) Temporal Pattern Parameters with 10-Second Voice Allowance.T3 cycleT3 cycle

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UA hearing to profound hearing loss [Ashley et al., 2005, UL 1971,(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)     (1)  (2)

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 1991]. Tactile signaling has been studied and found to be anOn
                                                                           Off
ID effective way to alert and notify sleeping persons. However,
                                                                                     (a) (b) (a) (b) (a)      (c)  (a)
there are many variables that have not been tested that might                                                        Time (sec)
affect the reliability of their performance. Some of the appli-                                     T3 cycle

IV ance variables include the mass of the appliance, frequency of

vibration, and the throw or displacement of the vibrating mass.

D Occupant variables that might affect the reporting of test

results and the effectiveness of the appliance include the

IN person's age, how long a person has lived with their hearing

loss, and what sleep stage the person is experiencing when the
appliance operates. The type of mattress might also have an
effect of the performance of certain tactile appliances. Mattress

R variables can include thickness, firmness, memory foam, pillow

tops, water beds, air beds, and motion isolation mattresses.

O Users of tactile appliances should be cautioned to test how well
Fthey might sense the effect of the appliance.
                                                                                Key:
                                                                                Phase (a) signal is on for 0.5 sec ±10%
                                                                                Phase (b) signal is off for 0.5 sec ±10%
                                                                                Phase (c) signal is off for 1.5 sec ±10% [(c) = (a) + 2(b)]
                                                                                Phase (c) signal can incorporate voice notification.
                                                                                Total cycle lasts for 4 sec ±10%

                                                                           FIGURE A.29.5.5(b) Temporal Pattern Parameters with 1.5-
                                                                           Second Voice Allowance.
     The Code requires both visual notification appliances and
tactile appliances. Visual notification appliances can awaken
sleeping persons, provide verification that there is a fire alarm
condition, and serve to alert persons when they are not in                 egies such as protection in-place or assisted escape or rescue
contact with a tactile appliance.                                          would be necessary.

A.29.5.10.2(1) As an example, governing laws, codes, or stand-             A.29.6.2 Family Escape Plan. There often is very little time
ards might require a certain number of accommodations be                   between the detection of a fire and the time it becomes deadly.
equipped for those with hearing loss or other disability.                  This interval can be as little as 1 or 2 minutes. Thus, this Code
                                                                           requires detection means to give a family some advance warn-
                                                                           ing of the development of conditions that become dangerous
A.29.6.1 Working smoke alarms cut the risk of dying in repor-              to life within a short period of time. Such warning, however,
ted home structure fires in half. Victims who are intimate with            could be wasted unless the family has planned in advance for
the fire or are incapable of taking action to escape might not             rapid exit from their residence. Therefore, in addition to the
benefit from the early warning. For these people, other strat-

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                  ANNEX A                                                                        72-303

     Alarm initiation -- eight T3 cycles minimum. Optional voice allowed in any T3 cycle.       Two T3 cycles minimum -- repeat as desired.

 T3 cycle    T3 cycle    T3 cycle    T3 cycle    T3 cycle    T3 cycle    T3 cycle    T3 cycle   Voice -- 10-sec maximum   T3 cycle    T3 cycle
with voice  with voice  with voice  with voice  with voice  with voice  with voice  with voice                           with voice  with voice

(1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)          (6)        (7)         (8)                                  (1)         (2)

FIGURE A.29.5.5(c) Temporal Pattern Parameters with 10-Second Voice Allowance.

     Alarm initiation -- Six T4 cycles (30 seconds minimum)                         Two T4 cycles minimum -- repeat as desired

T4 cycle T4 cycle T4 cycle T4 cycle T4 cycle T4 cycle                        Voice -- 10-seconds maximum  T4 cycle T4 cycle

Y FIGURE A.29.5.6(a) Temporal Pattern Parameters with 10-second Voice Allowance.(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)               (1)            (2)

L On
E ON Off
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8UAL US (a) (b) (a) (b) (a) (b) (a)
          ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 4 pulse (T4) CO alarm sound pattern cycle                (c)                           (a) (b) (a)
                                                                                                                           Time (sec)
                 Key

  IV Phase (a) = 100 milliseconds (±10%)

                 Phase (b) = 100 milliseconds (±10%)

  D Phase (c) = 5 seconds (±10%)

                 Phase (c) = cycle can incorporate voice notification
                 Total cycle lasts 5.8 seconds ±10%

IN  FIGURE A.29.5.6(b) Temporal Pattern Parameters with 1.5-second Voice Allowance.
R Alarm initiation -- Six T4 cycles minimum.
                                                                                    Two T4 cycles minimum -- repeat as desired
      Optional voice allowed in any T4 cycle.
                                                T4 cycle    T4 cycle         Voice -- 10-seconds maximum  T4 cycle T4 cycle
 OT4 cycle T4 cycle T4 cycle T4 cycle           with voice  with voice                                    with voice with voice
Fwith voice with voice with voice with voice

FIGURE A.29.5.6(c) Temporal Pattern Parameters with 10-second Voice Allowance.

fire-warning equipment, this Code requires exit plan informa-                   Special Provisions for the Disabled. For special circumstances
tion to be furnished.                                                        where the life safety of an occupant(s) depends on prompt
                                                                             rescue by others, the fire-warning equipment should include
   Planning and practicing for fire conditions with a focus on               means of prompt automatic notification to those who are to be
rapid exit from the residence are important. Drills should be                depended on for rescue.
held so that all family members know the action to be taken.                 A.29.6.2.3 The normal path of egress does not include
Each person should plan for the possibility that exit out of a               windows or other means of escape.
bedroom window could be necessary. An exit out of the resi-                  A.29.6.3 Assumptions -- equipment is as follows:
dence without the need to open a bedroom door is essential.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                        2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-304                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(1) Maintenance. Good fire protection requires that the                              carbon monoxide out of the closed rooms to the alarms would
equipment be maintained periodically. If the system                                  not be necessary. As a consequence, the installation of addi-
owner or responsible party is unable to perform the                                  tional carbon monoxide alarms should be considered.
       required maintenance, a maintenance agreement should
       be considered.                                                                   Carbon monoxide alarms or detectors are not substitutes for
(2) Reliability of fire alarm systems. Fire alarm systems loca-                      proper maintenance, inspection, and testing of fuel-burning
       ted in dwelling units and having all of the following                         equipment. Fuel-burning equipment and appliances should be
       features are considered to have a functional reliability of                   used, maintained, tested, and inspected according to the
       95 percent:                                                                   manufacturers' instructions.

(a) Utilizes a control unit                                                          Carbon monoxide detectors/alarms are cross sensitive to
                                                                                     hydrogen, an explosive gas that can be given off by recharging
(b) Has at least two independent sources of operating                                lead acid batteries. Where households include recharging
              power
          (c) Monitors all initiating and notification circuits for                     stations (e.g., for golf carts), the alarm should be located away
                  integrity                                                             from the recharging location.
                                                                                     N A.29.7.1.1 Where sleeping areas are separated and the audibil-
          (d) Transmits alarm signals to a constantly attended,                         ity of the alarm or detector to occupants within each sleeping
                                                                                        area could be seriously impaired, more than one unit could be
   Y remote monitoring location                                                         needed.
 L (e) Is tested regularly by the homeowner and at least
                                                                                           At times, depending on conditions, the audibility of notifica-
                  every 3 years by a qualified service technician                       tion appliances could be seriously impaired when occupants
                                                                                        are in the bedroom area. For instance, there might be a noisy
N (3) Reliability of fire alarm systems without remote monitor-                         window air conditioner or room humidifier generating an
          ing or with wireless transmission. Fire alarm systems for                     ambient noise level of 55 dBA or higher. The detection device
          dwelling units with all of the preceding features except                      alarms need to penetrate through the closed doors and be
 O (d) or systems that use low-power wireless transmission                              heard over the bedroom's noise levels with sufficient intensity
          from initiating devices within the dwelling units are                         to awaken sleeping occupants. Test data indicate that alarms
 E considered to have a functional reliability of 90 percent.                           with ratings of 85 dBA at 3 m (10 ft) that are installed outside
   (4) Reliability of other systems. Fire alarm systems for dwell-                      the bedrooms can produce about 15 dBA over ambient noise
                                                                                        levels of 55 dBA in the bedrooms. This sound pressure is likely
 S ing units comprised of interconnected smoke alarms                                   to be sufficient to awaken the average sleeping person.

          where the interconnecting means is monitored for integ-                          Alarms or detectors located remote from the bedroom area
                                                                                        might not be loud enough to awaken the average person. In
 U rity are considered to have a functional reliability of                              such cases, it is recommended that units be interconnected in
                                                                                        such a way that the operation of the remotely located detector
          88 percent. If the interconnecting means is not super-                        or alarm causes an alarm of sufficient intensity to penetrate the
                                                                                        bedrooms. The interconnection can be accomplished by the
 L vised or the alarms are not interconnected, such systems                             following:
                                                                                        (1) Installation of a system
          are considered to have a functional reliability of                            (2) Wiring together of multiple-station alarms
                                                                                        (3) Use of line carrier or radio frequency transmitters/receiv-
 A 85 percent.
                                                                                               ers
N A.29.7 Hazardous concentrations of carbon monoxide can                                (4) Adding supplemental notification appliances
                                                                                     N A.29.7.1.2 The location for effective performance is not
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U accumulate in a residence, generally from improperly operat-        generally dependent on mounting height. The density of
                                                                                        carbon monoxide is similar to that of air at room temperature,
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ing heating appliances, insufficient make-up air into the resi-   and carbon monoxide generally mixes readily with air.
                                                                                        A.29.8.1 All hostile fires in dwelling units generate smoke and
ID dence or space, or blocked chimneys or vents. However, there                         heat. However, the results of full-scale experiments conducted
                                                                                        over the last several decades in the United States, using typical
   are many other potential sources of carbon monoxide within a                         fires in dwelling units, indicate that detectable quantities of
                                                                                        smoke precede detectable levels of heat in nearly all cases (NBS
IV home, including, but not limited to, the following:                                  GCR 75-51, Detector Sensitivity and Siting Requirements for Dwell-
                                                                                        ings, 1975; NBS GCR 77-82, Detector Sensitivity and Siting Require-
   (1) Malfunctioning fossil fuel­burning appliances                                    ments for Dwellings Phase 2, 1977; and NIST Technical Note

D (2) Wood stoves

   (3) Fireplaces

IN (4) Idling automobiles in attached garages

   (5) Portable equipment such as gasoline-powered lawn and
          garden equipment and electric power generators

   (6) Barbecues

 R Carbon monoxide is odorless, tasteless, and colorless; there-

   fore, its presence is undetectable by smell, taste, or sight.

O Carbon monoxide can be mixed and migrate throughout a
Fresidence through the HVAC system. Carbon monoxide alarms

   meeting the requirements of ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for Single
   and Multiple Station Carbon Monoxide Alarms, carbon monoxide
   detectors meeting the requirements of ANSI/UL 2075, Stand-
   ard for Safety Gas and Vapor Detectors and Sensors, and installed in
   accordance with this standard should provide a significant level
   of protection against fatal carbon monoxide exposure.

   The installation of additional carbon monoxide alarms                             1455-1, Performance of Home Smoke Detectors Analysis of the Response
could result in a higher degree of protection. Adding alarms to                      of Several Available Technologies in a Residential Setting, 2007). In
rooms where fuel-burning appliances are located could provide                        addition, slowly developing, smoldering fires can produce
earlier warning of carbon monoxide hazards caused by those                           smoke and toxic gases without a significant increase in the
sources. Additional alarms located in rooms normally closed off                      room's temperature. Again, the results of experiments indicate
from the required alarms could increase the escape time, since                       that detectable quantities of smoke precede the development
the carbon monoxide concentration needed to force the                                of hazardous thermal atmospheres in nearly all cases.

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                    ANNEX A                                                                                        72-305

   For the preceding reasons, the required protection in this                                         S          S     S
Code utilizes smoke alarms as the primary life safety equipment
for providing a reasonable level of protection against fire.

The installation of additional alarms of either the smoke or                                       S Bedroom Hall Bedroom

heat type should result in a higher degree of protection.
Adding alarms to rooms that are normally closed off from the
                                                                           Living room             S

required alarms increases the escape time because the fire does                                          Recreation room
not need to build to the higher level necessary to force smoke
                                                                                          S

out of the closed room to the required alarms. As a conse-                 Basement
quence, it is recommended that the householder consider the
installation of additional fire protection devices. However, it
should be understood that Chapter 29 does not require addi-
                                                                        S Indicates required smoke alarm

                                                                   FIGURE A.29.8.1(a) Split Level Arrangement.
   tional smoke alarms over and above those called for in 29.8.1.
   Refer to Figure A.29.8.1(a) through Figure A.29.8.1(d) where                                    S                S
   required smoke alarms are shown.
                                                                   Dining                 Kitchen  Bedroom Bedroom
 Y Where to Locate the Required Smoke Alarms. Fifty-three percent  room
L of home fire deaths were reported between 11:00 p.m. and
                                                                   Living room                     S
   7:00 a.m. Persons in sleeping areas can be threatened by fires
                                                                                                   S
N in the remainder of the unit; therefore, smoke alarms are best
                                                                                                           Bedroom
   located in each bedroom and between the bedroom areas and
                                                                   FIGURE A.29.8.1(b) Smoke Alarm Should Be Located
O the rest of the unit as shown in Figure A.29.8.1(b). In dwelling Between Sleeping Area and Rest of Dwelling Unit, as Well as in
                                                                   Each Bedroom.
   units with more than one bedroom area or with bedrooms on
                                                                                          Dining      Kitchen         S
E more than one floor, more than one smoke alarm is required,                             room
                                                                           TV                                             Bedroom
   as shown in Figure A.29.8.1(c).                                       room                      Living room
                                                                                                                    S
 S In addition to smoke alarms outside of the sleeping areas                           S
                                                                                                                      S Bedroom
   and in each bedroom, Chapter 29 requires the installation of a  S

U smoke alarm on each additional level of the dwelling unit,           Bedroom

   including the basement. These installations are shown in

L Figure A.29.8.1(d). The living area smoke alarm should be

   installed in the living room or near the stairway to the upper

A level, or in both locations. The basement smoke alarm should

   be installed in close proximity to the stairway leading to the

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U floor above. Where installed on an open-joisted ceiling, the

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} smoke alarm should be placed on the bottom of the joists. The

ID smoke alarm should be positioned relative to the stairway so as

   to intercept smoke coming from a fire in the basement before

IV the smoke enters the stairway.
      Are More Smoke Alarms Desirable? The required number of

D smoke alarms might not provide reliable early warning protec-

   tion for those areas separated by a door from the areas protec-

IN ted by the required smoke alarms. For this reason, the use of

   additional smoke alarms for those areas for increased protec-
   tion is recommended. The additional areas include dining
   room, furnace room, utility room, and hallways not protected

R by the required smoke alarms. The installation of smoke alarms

   in kitchens, attics (finished or unfinished), or garages is not

Onormally recommended, because these locations occasionally
Fexperience conditions that can result in improper operation.
                                                                   FIGURE A.29.8.1(c) In Dwelling Units with More Than One
                                                                   Sleeping Area, Smoke Alarm Should Be Provided to Protect
                                                                   Each Sleeping Area in Addition to Smoke Alarms Required in
                                                                   Bedrooms.

                                                                   A.29.8.1.1(1) The term sleeping room applies to several occu-
                                                                   pancies including: one- and two-family dwellings; lodging or
                                                                   rooming houses; hotels, motels, and dormitories; apartment
                                                                   buildings; residential board and care facilities; and day-care
                                                                   homes. The term guest room, defined in 3.3.126, is an accommo-
A.29.8.1.1 Occupancies where smoke alarms are typically            dation that includes sleeping facilities. It applies in the context
required include residential, residential board and care, or day-  of hotel and dormitory occupancies.
care home. The term residential occupancy is defined in 3.3.249
and includes one- and two-family dwellings; lodging or room-       A.29.8.1.1(2) The term dwelling unit is defined in 3.3.83 and
ing houses; hotels, motels, and dormitories; and apartment         applies to one- and two-family dwellings and dwelling units of
buildings. The term residential board and care occupancy is        apartment buildings (including condominiums).

defined in 3.3.248 and includes both small and large facilities.   A.29.8.1.1(5) The term guest suite is defined in 3.3.127, and
NFPA 101 specifies a small facility to be one with sleeping
accommodations for not more than 16 residents. The term day-       the term living area is defined in 3.3.152.

care home, defined in 3.3.64, is a specific category of day-care   A.29.8.1.3.1 One smoke alarm per 500 ft2 (46 m2) is evaluated
                                                                   by dividing the total interior square footage of floor area per
occupancy. It should be noted that applicable laws, codes, or      level by 500 ft2 (46 m2). The requirements do not preclude the
standards might include conditions that could impact the
applicability of these requirements. The local authority should    installation of smoke alarms on walls in accordance with
                                                                   29.11.3.3. Some building configurations, such as division of
be consulted for specific details.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-306                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                                                  N A.29.9.4(3) Restraining means are not intended to be used
                                                                                     where the detector or alarm is designed to be plugged directly
                                                                                     into a receptacle without a cord.

              S             SS                                                    A.29.10.2 The UL listing for smoke alarms addresses two cate-
                                                                                  gories of these devices: one for applications where sensitivity
              Bedroom    Hall Bedroom                                             testing is not required (UTGT), and one for applications where
                                                                                  sensitivity testing is required (UTHA). Refer to the testing
                                                                                  requirements for these devices in Chapter 14.

                      S                                                           N A.29.10.3.1 ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for Single and Multiple
                                                                                  Station Carbon Monoxide Alarms, includes a level below which the
                                                                                  alarm should not respond.
              Living     Dining

              room       room
                                                                  S
                                                                                     A.29.10.4 The linear space rating is the maximum allowable
   LY Basement                                                                       distance between heat detectors. The linear space rating is also
N FIGURE A.29.8.1(d) Smoke Alarm Should Be Located on                                a measure of detector response time to a standard test fire
                                                                                     when tested at the same distance. A higher rating corresponds
Each Level in Addition to Each Bedroom.                                              to a faster response time. This Code recognizes only those heat
                                                                                     detectors with ratings of 50 ft (15.2 m) or more.
O rooms and open foyers or great rooms, dictate that alarms be                       A.29.10.4.2 A heat detector with a temperature rating some-
E located so that they do not cover distinctly separate 500 ft2                      what in excess of the highest normally expected ambient
                                                                                     temperature is specified in order to avoid the possibility of
(46 m2) areas but rather provide overlapping coverage relative                       premature response of the heat detector to non-fire conditions.

S to this spacing requirement.                                                           Some areas or rooms of the dwelling unit can experience
U A.29.8.2.1.1 As of the 2007 edition of NFPA 72, the Code                           ambient temperatures considerably higher than those in the
                                                                                     normally occupied living spaces. Examples are unfinished
required the interconnection of alarms for both new and exist-                       attics, the space near hot air registers, and some furnace
ing construction. The introduction of wireless interconnect                          rooms. This fact should be considered in the selection of the
                                                                                     appropriate temperature rating for fixed-temperature heat
L smoke alarms allows installation of interconnect devices in                        detectors to be installed in these areas or rooms.
                                                                                     A.29.10.6.2 Listed household fire alarm systems have a means
existing construction without the need for ac wiring modifica-                       to allow users to cancel or abort an actuate fire alarm signal
                                                                                     when they know it is an unwanted alarm.
A tions that once were required to retrofit interconnected alarms.                   A.29.10.7.8 Such input and output devices include, but are
                                                                                     not limited to, relay modules, notification appliances, phone
Work by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission                                  dialers, system control units, heat detectors, and manual fire
                                                                                     alarm boxes.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (CPSC) has concluded that interconnection of alarms is an      A.29.10.8.2.1 For RF waves traveling along the earth's surface,
                                                                                     the signal power loss (in dB), Lp, can be calculated using the
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} important factor that can affect proper notification and life   following plane-earth propagation loss model:

ID safety [1, 2]. The CPSC study shows that interconnected smoke                                                                     [A.29.10.8.2.1a]

alarms alerted residents to the fire more than twice as often as                  Lp  =                      10  log    D  4       
                                                                                                                           p       
IV noninterconnected alarms. A Victoria University study [3] also                                                                  
                                                                                                                        hT2X hR2X
emphasizes the need for interconnected alarms. The study
indicates that interconnected smoke alarms in every room in

D every dwelling would lead to about 50 percent fewer fatalities.

A study by Underwriters Laboratories shows the benefit of

IN interconnection [4].

(1) Green, M. A., and Andres, C. "2004-2005 National Sample
       Survey of Unreported Residential Fires." CPSC, 2009.

R (2) Ahrens, M. "Factors in Smoke Alarm Performance."
       National Fire Protection Association. December 2009.

O (3) Thomas, I., and Bruck, D. "Smoke Alarms in Dwellings:
       Timely Activation and Effective Notification." Victoria
FUniversity. June 2010.
                                                                                     where Dp represents the distance between the transmitter
                                                                                  and receiver and hTX and hRX are the heights of the transmitter
                                                                                  and receiver, respectively, above the earth.
A.29.8.2.2 One of the common problems associated with
smoke alarms and detectors is the nuisance alarms that are
usually triggered by products of combustion from cooking,                            The plane earth propagation model is a practical simplifica-
smoking, or other household particulates. While an alarm for                      tion and requires that hTX, hRX << Dp. It reflects the average
such a condition is anticipated and tolerated by the occupant                     expected attenuation due to distance of the RF carrier for a
of a dwelling unit through routine living experience, the alarm                   stationary set of radios with an essentially clear line of sight. It
is not permitted where it also sounds alarms in other dwelling                    predicts maximum communications range only in the UHF
units or in common use spaces. Nuisance alarms caused by                          band (300 MHz to 3 GHz) and is not dependent on frequency.

cooking are a very common occurrence, and inspection author-                      Inside a building, the model can be expanded to determine
                                                                                  the total path loss, LT, which includes the plane earth loss, Lp
ities should be aware of the possible ramifications where the                     (equation A.29.10.8.2.1a), and the loss due to the building
coverage is extended beyond the limits of the dwelling unit.                      materials in the propagation path, Lb, as follows:

2019 Edition             Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                              ANNEX A                                                                        72-307

                                                              [A.29.10.8.2.1b]           L1 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 12 in.
                                                                                      (13 mm) drywall

LT  =  10  log                       D  4             +   Lb                             L2 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 112 in.
                                        p                                             (38 mm) structural lumber
                                                    
                                   (hTX hR     )2                                        L3 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 34 in.
                                                                                      (19 mm) plywood
   If an equivalent open area test distance, DEOAT, is defined as
follows:                                                                                 L4 = frequency-dependent attenuation value for 12 in.
                                                                                      (13 mm) glass/tile floor
                                                              [A.29.10.8.2.1c]
                                                                                      Lw = Attenuation value of a wall = 2 × L1 + L2
L      =  10  log                    D4                                               Lf = Attenuation value of a floor = L1 + L2 + L3 + L4
  T                                     EOAT                                          Assuming four walls and two floors,
Y then DEOAT can be shown to be:                        
                                     (h      h      )2
                                         TX    R

                                                              L [A.29.10.8.2.1d]
       N -LT                                                                    N                                   [A.29.10.8.2.1e]

                                                                                      L =4×L +2×L                f
                                                                                      b  w
 O The DEOAT function is used to calculate a test distance
                                                          Lb                                The source for the equation in 29.10.8.2.1 is Stone, W. "Elec-
DEOAT = 10 40 hTX hR  = Dp 10 40required to verify the functional range of wireless alarm prod-tromagnetic Attenuation in Construction Materials," National
                                                                                         Institute of Standards and Technology, NISTIR 6055, 1997.
E ucts. As noted above in the right side of equation                                     A.29.10.8.2.4 Receiving units that stay in alarm for 30 seconds
S A.29.10.8.2.1d, the function represents two factors -- one that                        or 1 minute longer than the transmitting alarm would provide
                                                                                         additional protection if the first alarm is damaged due to a very
   describes the attenuation of a radio frequency signal due to                          fast growing fire. The persisting alarm signal would provide
                                                                                         additional notification to occupants. This option needs to be
U plane earth propagation path loss (Dp), and one that describes                         considered in light of the potential for the longer alarm signals
                                                                                         on receiving smoke alarms being a potential nuisance to occu-
   the dwelling material losses (Lb) in the signal's propagation                         pants during test and other nuisance alarm events.
   path. It is the combination of dwelling loss and propagation                       N A.29.10.9.1 NFPA 72 does not require single- and multiple-
                                                                                         station alarms and household alarm systems to send signals off-
L path loss that is used in the calculation of the test distance                         premises. However, if such supervision is elected by the owner
                                                                                         or required by some other governing laws, codes, or standards,
   DEOAT. The losses are expressed in dB, and the unit for distances                     this section requires that it be done in accordance with other
                                                                                         parts of this Code, except as noted.
A is meter.                                                                           N A.29.10.9.2 Upon receipt of a carbon monoxide (CO) alarm
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U In reviewing average home sizes, a reliable (indoor) commu-          signal, supervising station personnel should perform the
                                                                                         following actions in the order listed:
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} nication of 100 ft (30.5 m) is adequate for a majority of dwell-   (1) Where required by the emergency response agency,

ID ings, based on an average house size of 2200 ft2 (204 m2)                                    immediately retransmit indication of the carbon monox-
                                                                                                ide alarm signal to the communications center.
   [National Association of Home Builders]. Construction materi-                         (2) The immediate retransmission should be permitted to be
   als of a home (walls and floors) can attenuate an RF signal,                                 delayed by not more than 90 seconds where the jurisdic-
                                                                                                tion permits the supervising station to first contact the
IV with the RF signal being attenuated more at higher frequencies                               protected premises to determine if the alarm was initiated
                                                                                                by the activation of a test.
   [Stone, 1997]. Communication specifications for devices of this                       (3) Contact the responsible party(s) in accordance with the
                                                                                                notification plan.
D type are typically specified as open field (no obstructions) test                      (4) Once contacted, the subscriber should be informed to
                                                                                                take action in accordance with the manufacturer's
   distances and not in terms of attenuation. Therefore, the stand-

IN ard specifies a minimum open area test distance, DEOAT, that the

   RF products must communicate. This distance is equal to 100 ft
   (30.5 m) (the longest straight line distance within a majority of
   homes) plus an additional distance that is equivalent to the

R attenuation of four walls and two floors (the most straight line

   obstructions in a majority of homes). The additional distance

Ovaries depending on the operating frequency of the product.

   Formulas for calculating DEOAT are included below, along with

Fexamples for a number of different frequencies. These criteria
   are expected to yield reliable indoor communications at 100 ft
   (30.5 m) when used inside a majority of dwellings.

   The building attenuation factor, Lb, represents the maximum                        published instructions, or where the manufacturer's
attenuation value of typical floors and walls within a majority of                    published instructions are not available, the subscriber
structures. Lb is calculated using attenuation values of different                    should be advised to take the following actions:
materials. The following method is used to calculate Lb. The                          (a) Immediately move to fresh air, either outdoors or by
building materials attenuation coefficients specified in this
application are taken from Stone, 1997. Other sources of                                     an open door or window.
                                                                                      (b) Verify that all occupants are accounted for.
appropriate building material attenuation coefficients can be
used; however, testing organizations should apply values consis-
tently for all products tested.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-308        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

      (c) Do not reenter the premises or move away from an        Ceiling
             open door or window until the emergency service                       Acceptable
             responders have arrived, the premises have been
             aired out, and the alarm remains in its normal
             condition.

A.29.10.9.7 Where 29.10.9.7, which provides for screening
alarm signals to minimize response to false alarms, is to be
implemented, the following should be considered:                                                 12 in.
(1) Was the verification call answered at the protected prem-               Top of detector    (300 mm)
                                                                            acceptable here    maximum

      ises?
(2) Did the respondent provide proper identification?
   (3) Is it necessary for the respondent to identify the cause of
           the alarm signal?                                      Note: Measurements shown are to
                                                                  the closest edge of the detector.
   (4) Should the public service fire communications center be
                                                                                                                                             Sidewall
  Y notified and advised that an alarm signal was received,
                                                                  FIGURE A.29.11.3 Example of Proper Mounting for Smoke
           including the response to the verification call, when anAlarms and Smoke Detectors.

  L authorized respondent states that fire service response is       4 in.  Not in this area
                                                                  (100 mm)
           not desired?                                                           Anywhere in
                                                                                  this area
N (5) Should the public service fire communications center be
           notified and advised that an alarm signal was received,   36 in. 36 in.
  O including the response to the verification call, for all      ( 910 mm) ( 910 mm)
           other situations, including both a hostile fire and no
           answer to the verification call?

E (6) What other actions should be required by a standard
  S operating procedure?

· A.29.11.2.1 Once these limits have been exceeded, a house-

U hold fire alarm and/or carbon monoxide detection system

   should be installed.

L  A.29.11.3 One of the most critical factors of any fire alarm
A system is the location of the fire detecting devices. This annex

   is not a technical study. It is an attempt to provide some funda-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U mentals on fire-warning equipment location. For simplicity,

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} only those types of alarms or detectors recognized by Chap-

ID ter 29 (e.g., smoke and heat alarms or smoke and heat detec-

   tors) are discussed. Specific mounting locations of fire-warning
   equipment in unoccupied or architecturally unique areas (e.g.,

IV as in attics or in rooms with high ceilings) should be evaluated

   by a qualified professional.

 D The conclusions of the Kemano Study and FPRF Smoke

   Detector Spacing Requirements Report (2008) have deter-

IN mined revisions to smoke alarm and smoke detector mounting

   within 4 in. (100 mm) of a flat ceiling/wall corner are now
   acceptable. The studies have shown that acceptable detection
   performance does not depend on the 4 in. (100 mm) separa-

R tion. Figure A.29.11.3 illustrates acceptable smoke alarm and

   smoke detector mounting locations.

FO A.29.11.3.1 Figure A.29.11.3.1 illustrates acceptable smoke
                                                                  FIGURE A.29.11.3.1 Example of Proper Mounting for
                                                                  Alarms and Detectors with Peaked Ceilings.

                                                                            Not in this area

                                                                                                4 in. (100 mm)

                                                                                               Anywhere in
                                                                                               this area

alarm or smoke detector mounting locations for a peaked ceil-               36 in. (910 mm)
ing.

A.29.11.3.2 Figure A.29.11.3.2 illustrates acceptable smoke       FIGURE A.29.11.3.2 Example of Proper Mounting for
alarm or smoke detector mounting locations for a sloped ceil-     Alarms and Detectors with Sloped Ceilings.
ing.

A.29.11.3.3 Figure A.29.11.3 illustrates acceptable smoke         A.29.11.3.4(3) Smoke detectors and smoke alarms should be
alarm or smoke detector mounting locations.                       installed in those locations recommended by the manufactur-
                                                                  er's published instructions, except in those cases where the
   In those dwelling units employing radiant heating in the       space above the ceiling is open to the outside and little or no
ceiling, the wall location is the recommended location. Radiant   insulation is present over the ceiling. Such cases result in the
heating in the ceiling can create a hot air boundary layer along  ceiling being excessively cold in the winter or excessively hot in
the ceiling surface, which can seriously restrict the movement    the summer. Where the ceiling is significantly different in
of smoke and heat to a ceiling-mounted detector.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                     ANNEX A                                                     72-309

temperature from the air space below, smoke and heat have                           lation of smoke alarms or smoke detectors that use photoelec-
difficulty reaching the ceiling and a detector that is located on                   tric detection will result in reduced fire safety for flaming fires
that ceiling.                                                                       and a reduced risk of nuisance alarms. Based on the trade-off
A.29.11.3.4(4) As per annex material located in A.29.8.1, it is                     between faster response to fires and the frequency of nuisance
not normally recommended that smoke alarms or smoke detec-                          alarms, detectors that utilize both technologies (i.e., ionization,
tors be placed in kitchen spaces. This section of the code                          photoelectric, and a combination) are allowed to be installed
provides guidelines for safe installation if a need exists to install               between 10 ft (3.0 m) and 20 ft (6.1 m) along a horizontal flow
a smoke alarm or smoke detector in a residential kitchen space                      path from a standard or fixed cooking appliance if the specific
or cooking area.                                                                    detector is equipped with an alarm silencing means or is of the
                                                                                    photoelectric-type.

      Within this Code section, a fixed cooking appliance is any                       Nuisance alarm studies provide data on cooking nuisances
   appliance that is intended to be permanently connected elec-                     that emanate from both fixed cooking appliances and station-
   trically to the wiring system or the fuel source. A stationary                   ary cooking appliances (e.g., stove, oven) as well as portable
   cooking appliance is any appliance that is intended to be                        cooking appliances (e.g., toaster). Based on these studies,
   fastened in place or located in a dedicated space, and is                        which demonstrate the potential of all cooking appliances to
                                                                                    generate nuisance sources, a zone of exclusion has been speci-
Y connected to the supply circuit or fuel source.                                   fied surrounding each stationary or fixed cooking appliance.
 L Smoke alarms and smoke detectors that are currently availa-                      The purpose of this zone is to limit the installation of smoke
                                                                                    alarms and detectors in areas where stationary, fixed, or porta-
   ble to consumers are susceptible to particles released into the                  ble cooking appliances will be located within the residential
                                                                                    kitchen space such that potential nuisance alarms are mini-
N air during normal cooking procedures. If smoke alarms and                         mized. The size of the zone of exclusion is specified to attempt
                                                                                    to take into account the unknown and transitory locations of
   smoke detectors are placed too close to the area where the                       portable cooking appliances. This zone of exclusion is deter-
                                                                                    mined by measuring a 10 ft (3.0 m) radial distance from the
O cooking source originates, a high level of nuisance alarms can                    closest edge of a stationary or fixed cooking appliance. The
                                                                                    zone of exclusion is not intended to pass through walls or door-
   occur. Frequent nuisance alarms can result in an occupant disa-                  ways. Figure A.29.11.3.4(4)(a) provides an example of the zone
   bling the smoke alarm or smoke detector.                                         of exclusion in a generalized residential kitchen.

 E Nuisance alarm studies show that commercially available                             If other areas of this code require that a smoke alarm or
S residential smoke alarms and smoke detectors are susceptible                      smoke detector be placed within a horizontal flow path
                                                                                    distance between 10 ft (3.0 m) and 20 ft (6.1 m) from a station-
   to nuisance alarms when installed too close to cooking applian-                  ary or fixed cooking appliance, the following method should
                                                                                    be used to determine the distance, and only photoelectric
U ces. As the horizontal distance between the smoke alarm or                        detection or smoke alarms/detectors with alarm silencing
                                                                                    means can be installed in this area.
   smoke detectors and the cooking appliance increases, the
                                                                                       To install a smoke alarm or detector between 10 ft (3.0 m)
L frequency of nuisance alarms decreases. Smoke alarms or                           and 20 ft (6.1 m) from the cooking appliance, an installer must
                                                                                    first determine the 10 ft (3.0 m) area of exclusion. Once the
   smoke detectors that use ionization smoke detection have been                    area of exclusion is determined, an installer must then deter-
                                                                                    mine the horizontal flow distance. This is the horizontal
A shown to be more susceptible to cooking nuisance alarms than                      distance along the ceiling from the closest edge of the cooking
                                                                                    appliance to the smoke alarm or detector. The horizontal
   those that use photoelectric smoke detection when the alarms                     distance can consist of line segments due to impediments, such
                                                                                    as interior partitions. Once an impediment is met, the meas-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U or detectors are installed within 10 ft (3.0 m) along a horizon-urement of the distance will then continue along the new hori-
                                                                                    zontal path segment until the distance requirement is met or
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tal smoke travel path from a cooking appliance. Smoke alarms  another impediment is encountered. Figure A.29.11.3.4(4)(b)
                                                                                    provides an example for placement outside a kitchen in a
ID or smoke detectors that use photoelectric smoke detection

   produce nuisance alarms when installed less than 10 ft (3.0 m)
   from a cooking appliance, though to a lesser degree.

 IV The occurrence of the higher frequency of nuisance alarms

   observed in smoke alarms or smoke detectors that use ioniza-

D tion detection have been documented in the fire research data.

   Due to the differences in technology between ionization detec-

IN tion and photoelectric detection, the sensitivity typically used

   for ionization detection is much higher than that used for
   photoelectric detection. This sensitivity difference is a result of

R each type of the detection being required to satisfy UL 217

   performance tests. Removing detection technology from
   consideration, the frequency of nuisance alarms is solely due to

Othe sensitivity of the detection method used. Thus, both ioniza-
Ftion and photoelectric detector technologies will produce
nuisance alarms due to cooking, but currently available smoke                       nearby hallway. Figure A.29.11.3.4(4)(c) provides another
                                                                                    example of appropriate placement outside of a kitchen in an
alarms and smoke detectors that use ionization detection typi-                      adjacent room.
cally produce more cooking-related nuisance alarms.

   The higher sensitivities of currently available smoke alarms                        At a horizontal flow path distance of greater than 20 ft
and smoke detectors that use ionization detection do provide a                      (6.1 m), any type of smoke alarm or smoke detector can be
benefit at the expense of a potentially higher rate of cooking-                     installed.
related nuisance alarms. Research has demonstrated that ioni-
zation detection will typically respond faster than photoelectric                      In rare cases, a residential dwelling can be of such size and
detection to flaming fires, providing earlier warning to occu-                      configuration that an area of exclusion of 10 ft (3.0 m) from a
pants that might allow for quicker intervention or faster egress.                   stationary or fixed cooking appliance excludes the placement
In general, the installation of smoke alarms or smoke detectors                     of a smoke alarm or smoke detector required by other areas of
that use ionization detection will result in increased fire safety                  this Code. In these cases, a smoke alarm or smoke detector
at the risk of a higher frequency of nuisance alarms. The instal-                   using photoelectric detection can be installed at least 72 in.
                                                                                    (1.83 m) from the fixed or stationary cooking appliance.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-310                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Figure A.29.11.3.4(4)(d) provides an example of this situation       smoke alarm or smoke detector is expected to reduce the
in practice where a smoke alarm or smoke detector is required        frequency of nuisance alarms.
outside of the sleeping area, but the space is in close proximity
to the kitchen space.                                                N A.29.11.3.4(9) There are circumstances in which the place-
                                                                        ment of smoke alarms and detectors cannot physically meet the
A.29.11.3.4(7) Studies indicate that smoke alarms and smoke          requirement to be 36 in. (910 mm) or further away from the
detectors that use ionization detection, photoelectric detec-        tip of the fan blade. Consequently, there is an irreconcilable
tion, or a combination of ionization and photoelectric detec-        conflict in enforcing all siting requirements of this standard, so
tion, are susceptible to nuisance alarms caused by steam. Little     the requirement of 29.11.3.4(10) only applies where possible to
research has been done on the comparative response of these          allow compliance with this standard. A limited study (Gottuk
types of detection to steam. Steam particles, in general, are visi-  and Gottuk 2015) has indicated that placing alarms closer than
ble, reflect light easily, and are typically produced in a size      36 in. (910 mm) is not expected to produce an unacceptable
range that would be more likely to actuate a photoelectric           risk, and in some cases, could improve performance.
sensor. Thus, it is required that smoke alarms and smoke detec-
tors be installed greater than 36 in. (910 mm) from the bath-
room door where possible. Increasing the distance between the

Y smoke alarm or smoke detector and the bathroom door can
L reduce the frequency of nuisance alarms from bathroom

steam. Frequent nuisance alarms can result in the occupant

N disabling the smoke alarm. Each incremental increase in sepa-

ration, up to 10 ft (3.0 m), between the bathroom door and the
              E O Area of exclusion                                  A.29.11.3.4(12) Figure A.29.11.3.4(12) illustrates acceptable
                                                                     smoke alarm or smoke detector mounting locations for tray-
              No smoke alarm                                         shaped ceilings.
                                                                     A.29.11.4 While Chapter 29 does not require heat alarms or
              S or detector                                          heat detectors as part of the basic protection scheme, it is
                                          Smoke alarm                recommended that the householder consider the use and
                                         or detector with            placement of additional heat detectors for the same reasons
                                         silencing means             presented under A.29.11.3. For example, additional heat
                                         or photoelectric            alarms or heat detectors could be considered, but not limited
                                                                     to, the following areas: kitchen, dining room, attic (finished or
                                                type                 unfinished), furnace room, utility room, basement, and inte-
              L U Kitchen                                            gral or attached garage.
               A 10(3.0            m)
                                                                        The placement of the heat alarm or heat detector is critical
                                                                     where maximum speed of fire detection is desired. Thus, a logi-
                                                                     cal location for a heat alarm or heat detector is the center of
                                                                     the ceiling. At this location, the heat alarm or heat detector is
                                                                     closest to all areas of the room.
                                                                     A.29.11.4.1 Heat Alarm or Heat Detector Mounting -- Dead Air
                                                                     Space. Heat from a fire rises to the ceiling, spreads out across
                                                                     the ceiling surface, and begins to bank down from the ceiling.
                                                                     The corner where the ceiling and the wall meet is an air space
                                                                     into which heat has difficulty penetrating. In most fires, this
                                                                     dead air space measures about 4 in. (100 mm) along the ceil-
                                                                     ing from the corner and about 4 in. (100 mm) down the wall as
                                                                     shown in Figure A.17.6.3.1.3.1. Heat alarm or heat detectors
                                                                     should not be placed in this dead air space.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Stationary or fixedft
    IV cooking appliance

D FIGURE A.29.11.3.4(4)(a) Example of Zone of Exclusion

(gray area) Within Typical Residential Kitchen.
   IN Area of exclusion
   RNo smoke alarm                                                   Bedroom
FOor detector
                                         60 in. (1.52 m)                    36 in. (910 mm)   Bathroom
                                                                                or greater

                                                                     Smoke alarm or detector
                                                                     with silencing means or
                                                                     photoelectric type

              Kitchen                                                Bedroom
                          10 ft (3.0 m)

              Stationary or fixed
              cooking appliance

FIGURE A.29.11.3.4(4)(b) Example of Smoke Alarm or Smoke Detector Placement Between
10 ft (3.0 m) and 20 ft (6.1 m) Away in Hallway from Center of Stationary or Fixed Cooking
Appliance.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                   ANNEX A                                       72-311

Smoke alarm or detector           10 ft (3.0 m)  Area of exclusion
with silencing means or                          No smoke alarm
photoelectric type                               or detector

          Living room                                  Kitchen

          Y Stationary or fixed
          L cooking appliance
N FIGURE A.29.11.3.4(4)(c) Example of Smoke Alarm or Smoke Detector Placement Between
O 10 ft (3.0 m) and 20 ft (6.1 m) Away in Hallway from Center of Stationary or Fixed Cooking

Appliance.
   USE Kitchen
  L Area of               Between 10 ft (3.0 m)                      Smoke alarm
  A exclusion                and 20 ft (6.1 m)                      or detector with
                                                                    silencing means
                  No smokefrom cooking appliance                    or photoelectric

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U alarm or              Bedroom                          type
                  detector
72 in. (1.83 m)IVID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Stationaryor

fixed cooking    78 in. (1.98 m)

D appliance
                                  Photoelectric
                                  smoke alarm
                                  or detector
IN FIGURE A.29.11.3.4(4)(d) Example of Exception Placement of Photoelectric Smoke Alarm or

Smoke Detector at 72 in. (1.83 m) from Stationary or Fixed Cooking Appliance.
R A.29.11.4.2 Figure A.29.11.3.2 illustrates acceptable heat
                                                                                      Anywhere along this bold surface
   alarm or heat detector mounting locations for sloped ceilings.
                                                                                                                                        12 in.
FOA.29.11.4.4 Spacing of Detectors. Where a room is too large for                                                                    (300 mm)

protection by a single heat alarm or heat detector, multiple
alarms or detectors should be used. It is important that they be
properly located so all parts of the room are covered. (For
further information on the spacing of detectors, see Chapter 17.)

   Where the Distance Between Detectors Should Be Further Reduced.
The distance between detectors is based on data obtained from
the spread of heat across a smooth ceiling. Where the ceiling is
not smooth, the placement of the heat alarm or heat detector
should be tailored to the situation.

   Figure A.17.6.3.1.3.1 illustrates acceptable heat alarms or              FIGURE A.29.11.3.4(12) Locations Permitted for Smoke
heat detector mounting locations for smooth ceilings and side-              Alarms and Smoke Detectors on Tray-Shaped Ceilings.
walls.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-312                  NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

A.29.11.4.7 Refer to Figure A.29.11.4.7, where the distance         Annex B Engineering Guide for Automatic Fire Detector
between heat alarms or heat detectors should be further             Spacing
reduced.
                                                                    This annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document
                                                                    but is included for informational purposes only.
For instance, with open wood joists, heat travels freely down
the joist channels so that the maximum distance between the
heat alarm or heat detectors [(50 ft) 15.2 m] can be used.             Users of Annex B should refer back to the text of NFPA 72 to famili-
However, heat has trouble spreading across the joists, so the       arize themselves with the limitations of the design methods summarized
distance in this direction should be one-half the distance          herein.

allowed between detectors, as shown in Figure A.29.11.4.7, and      Section B.2, and particularly B.2.2 and B.2.3, are largely based on
the distance to the wall is reduced to 12.5 ft (3.8 m). Since one-  the work of Custer and Meacham as found in "Performance-Based Fire
half of 50 ft (15.2 m) is 25 ft (7.6 m), the distance between heat  Safety Engineering: An Introduction of Basic Concepts" (Meacham
alarms or detectors across open wood joists should not exceed       and Custer 1995) and Introduction to Performance-Based Fire Safety
   25 ft (7.6 m), as shown in Figure A.29.11.4.7, and the distance
   to the wall is reduced [one-half of 25 ft (7.6 m)] to 12.5 ft
   (3.8 m). Paragraph 29.11.4.6 requires that a heat alarm or heat

Y detectors be mounted on the bottom of the joists and not up in
L joist channels.

      Walls, partitions, doorways, ceiling beams, and open joists

N interrupt the normal flow of heat, thus creating new areas to be

   protected.

 O In addition to the special requirements for heat detectors

   installed on ceilings with exposed joists, reduced spacing also

E might be required due to other structural characteristics of the

   protected area, possible drafts, or other conditions that could

S affect heat alarm or detector operation.
U N A.29.14.5(7) Actions that should be considered include open-

   ing windows and doors and evacuation. Also, the information

L should provide examples of organizations to be contacted for

   assistance.
                                                                    (Custer and Meacham 1997). [25]
                                                                       The National Fire Protection Association and the Technical Commit-

                                                                    tee on Initiating Devices for Fire Alarm Systems gratefully acknowledge
                                                                    the technical contributions of the Society of Fire Protection Engineers,
                                                                    Richard Custer, and Brian Meacham to performance-based design and
                                                                    this annex.
                                                                    B.1 Introduction.
                                                                    B.1.1 Scope. Annex B provides information intended to
                                                                    supplement Chapter 17. It includes a procedure for determin-
                                                                    ing detector spacing based on the objectives set for the system,
                                                                    size, and rate of growth of fire to be detected, various ceiling
                                                                    heights, ambient temperatures, and response characteristics of
                                                                    the detectors. In addition to providing an engineering method
                                                                    for the design of detection systems using plume-dependent
                                                                    detectors, heat detectors, and smoke detectors, this annex also
                                                                    provides guidance on the use of radiant energy­sensing detec-
                                                                    tors.
                                                                    B.1.2 General.
                                                                    B.1.2.1 In the 1999 edition Annex B was revised in its entirety
                                                                    from previous editions. The correlations originally used to
                                                                    develop the tables and graphs for heat and smoke detector
                                                                    spacings in the earlier editions have been updated to be consis-
                                                                    tent with current research. These revisions correct the errors in
                                                                    the original correlations. In earlier editions, the tables and
                                                                    graphs were based on an assumed heat of combustion of
                                                                    20,900 kJ/kg (8986 Btu/lb). The effective heat of combustion
                                                                    for common cellulosic materials is usually taken to be approxi-
                                                                    mately 12,500 kJ/kg (5374 Btu/lb). The equations in this
                                                                    annex were produced using test data and data correlations for
                                                                    cellulosic (wood) fuels that have a total heat of combustion of
                                                                    about 12,500 kJ/kg (5374 Btu/lb).
                                                                    B.1.2.2 In addition to the revisions undertaken in 1999, the
                                                                    concept of performance-based design was further expanded
                                                                    on. This included, to a large extent, additional material taken
                                                                    from the work of Custer and Meacham [25]. Since this time,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} 12¹/ ft25 ft
IV (3.8 m)    (7.6 m )

                        50 ft (15 m)

                                         25 ft
                                       (7.6 m )
FOR IND FIGURE A.29.11.4.7 Open Joists, Attics, and Extra-High
Ceilings are Some Areas that Require Special Knowledge for          the industry continues to develop additional codes, standards,
Installation.                                                       and guides to further assist in undertaking a performance-
                                                                    based assessment. This includes the work of SFPE [40, 49],
                                                                    NFPA [50, 51, 52], and ICC [53].

2019 Edition            Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX B                                                                                                          72-313

B.1.2.3 For the purposes of this annex, the heat produced by                       dimensions, ambient conditions, and fire and response charac-
a fire is manifested either as convective heat or radiant heat. It                 teristics of the detector are different from above, the response
is assumed that conductive heat transfer is of little consequence                  of the heat detector must be expected to be different as well.
during the early stages of the development of a fire, where this                   Therefore, the use of an installed detector spacing that is
annex is relevant. A convective heat release rate fraction equal                   different from the listed spacing might be warranted through
to 75 percent of the total heat release rate has been used in this                 the use of a performance-based approach if the conditions are
annex. Users should refer to references 12 and 13 in I.1.2.18                      as follows:
for fuels or burning conditions that are substantially different
from these conditions.                                                             (1) The design objectives are different from designing a
                                                                                          system that operates at the same time as a sprinkler in the
                                                                                          approval test.
B.1.2.4 The design methods for plume-dependent fire detec-                         (2) Faster response of the device is desired.
tors provided in this annex are based on full-scale fire tests                     (3) A response of the device to a smaller fire than used in the
funded by the Fire Detection Institute in which all fires were                                approved test is required.
   geometrically growing flaming fires. (See Environments of Fire                     (4) Accommodation to room geometry that is different from
   Detectors -- Phase 1: Effect of Fire Size, Ceiling Height and Material;
   Measurements Vol. I and Analysis Vol. II [10].)                                            that used in the listing process.
                                                                                      (5) Other special considerations, such as ambient tempera-
Y B.1.2.5 The guidance applicable to smoke detectors is limited
L to a theoretical analysis based on the flaming fire test data and                           ture, air movement, ceiling height, or other obstruction,
                                                                                              are different from or are not considered in the approval
   is not intended to address the detection of smoldering fires.                              tests.
                                                                                      (6) A fire other than a steady state 1137 kW (1200 Btu/sec)
N B.1.2.6 The design methods for plume-dependent fire detec-                                  fire is contemplated.
O tors do not address the detection of steady-state fires.                            B.1.3.3 The designer of fire alarm systems needs to be knowl-
                                                                                      edgeable in the applicable areas associated with undertaking a
   B.1.2.7 The design methods for plume-dependent fire detec-                         performance-based design, including fire dynamics,
                                                                                      performance-based design, detector response, and so forth,
E tors used in this annex are only applicable when employed in                        and apply these principles judiciously. In addition, the majority
                                                                                      of jurisdictions consider the design of fire alarm systems as
   the context of applications where the ceiling is smooth and                        "engineering work." They therefore require licensed engineers
                                                                                      to perform such work. Other jurisdictions allow technologists
S level. They cannot be used for ceilings where there are beams,                      to lay out fire alarm systems as long as they follow the appropri-
                                                                                      ate prescriptive requirements. Designers who are using a
   joists, or bays formed by beams and purlins. The research upon                     performance-based design approach need to review the rele-
                                                                                      vant engineering licensure laws in the jurisdictions in which
U which the following methods have been based did not consider                        they are practicing, as performance-based designs might very
                                                                                      likely be deemed engineering and of the type that requires
   the effect of beams, joists, and bays in sufficient detail to justify              licensure of a professional engineer.
                                                                                      B.2 Performance-Based Approach to Designing and Analyzing
L the use of this annex to those applications.                                        Fire Detection Systems.
                                                                                    B.2.1 Overview. Subsection B.2.1 provides an overview of a
   B.1.3 Purpose.                                                                     systematic approach to conducting a performance-based design
                                                                                      or analysis of a fire detection system. The approach has been
A  B.1.3.1 The purpose of Annex B is to provide a performance                         outlined by Custer and Meacham and the SFPE Engineering
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U basis for the location and spacing of fire detection­initiating   Guide to Performance Based Fire Protection [40] and is summarized
                                                                                      below in the context of design and analysis of fire detection
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} devices. The sections for heat and smoke detectors provide an   systems. (Refer to Figure B.2.1.) This approach has been divided
                                                                                      into two phases: defining goals and objectives and system
ID alternative design method to the prescriptive approach presen-                     design and evaluation.
                                                                                      B.2.2 Phase 1 -- Defining Goals and Objectives.
   ted in Chapter 17 (i.e., based on their listed spacings). The

IV section on radiant energy­sensing detectors elaborates on the

   performance-based criteria already existing in Chapter 17. A
   performance-based approach allows one to consider potential

D fire growth rates and fire signatures, the individual compart-

   ment characteristics, and damageability characteristics of the

IN targets (e.g., occupants, equipment, contents, structures, and

   so on) in order to determine the location of a specific type of
   detector to meet the objectives established for the system.

R B.1.3.2 Under the prescriptive approach, heat detectors are

   installed according to their listed spacing. The listed spacing is

Odetermined in a full-scale fire test room. The fire test room

   used for the determination of listed spacing for heat detectors

Fhas a ceiling height of 4.8 m (15 ft 9 in.). A steady-state, flam-
mable liquid fire with a heat release rate of approximately                        B.2.2.1 Define Scope of Project.
1137 kW (1200 Btu/sec), located 0.9 m (3 ft) above the floor, is                   B.2.2.1.1 The initial step of this approach is to identify infor-
used as the test fire. Special 71°C (160°F) test sprinklers are                    mation relative to the overall scope of work on the project,
installed on a 3 m × 3 m (10 ft × 10 ft) spacing array such that                   including characteristics of the building, design intent, design
the fire is in the center of the sprinkler array. The heat detec-
tors being tested are installed in a square array with increasing                  and construction team organization, constraints on design and
spacing centered about the fire location. The elevation of the                     project schedule, proposed building construction and features,
test fire is adjusted during the test to produce the temperature                   relevant hazards, how the building functions, occupant charac-
versus time curve at the test sprinkler heads to yield actuation                   teristics, and so forth. Additional information that one might
                                                                                   want to consider could also include characteristics of the fire
of the heads in 2.0 minutes ±10 seconds. The largest heat                          departments, historic preservation, building management, and
detector spacing that achieves alarm before the actuation of                       applicable regulations.
the sprinkler heads in the test becomes the listed spacing for
the heat detector. See Figure A.17.6.3.1.1(c). If the room

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-314                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              Step 1 ­ Define       A
              Scope of Project                 Step 7a ­ Develop
                                               Candidate Designs
                                                for Each Scenario

                 Step 2 ­            Step 7b ­ Select
              Identify Goals        Candidate Designs

              Step 3 ­ Identify     Step 7c ­ Evaluate                  Step 7d ­ Select

Phase I       Stakeholder's         Selected Design for                 Next Candidate
                                    Each Fire Scenario                       Design
              Objectives
              Y Step 4 ­ Define
                                              Do
               Design Objectives
                                              Results Meet
              NL Step 5 ­ Define
              O Performance Criteria
                                              Criteria?            Yes  Accept Design(s)  B

              E Step 6 ­ Develop              No
              S Fire Scenarios and

                  Design Fires
                                      Step 7e ­ Modify
                                      Candidate Design

                                    Step 7f ­ Reevaluate
                                    Design for Each Fire

                                            Scenario
AL U Phase II
               Step 7 ­ Develop
                 and Evaluate

              Candidate Designs
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Step 8 ­ Select
                 and Document    B
                   Final Design
                                              Do

                                              Results Meet         Yes
          IVA
D FIGURE B.2.1 Overview of the Performance-Based Design Process. [25]Criteria?

                                              No

IN Table B.2.2.1.2 Design/Analysis Situation
R Building Type                                                         (2) To protect property and heritage (structure, contents,
 ONew          System Type                    Design/Analysis                  and so forth)
FExisting           New                             Design
                    New                             Design              (3) To provide for continuity of operations (protect stake-
Existing                  Existing            Analysis                         holder's mission, operating capability, and so forth)

                                                                        (4) To limit the environmental impact of fire (toxic products,
                                                                               fire-fighting water run-off, and so forth)

                                                                        B.2.2.2.2 Fire protection goals are like other goals in that they
                                                                        are generally easy to agree on, are qualitative, and are noncon-
                                                                        troversial in nature. They express the desired overall outcome
B.2.2.1.2 While defining the project's scope, the designer will         to be achieved, that is, to provide life safety to the building
identify which of the three situations in Table B.2.2.1.2 best
describes the project at hand (i.e., a performance-based analy-         occupants.

sis of an existing detection system in an existing building).           B.2.2.2.3 When starting the performance-based process, the

B.2.2.2 Identify Goals.                                                 various parties -- including the stakeholders (i.e., the architect,
                                                                        building owner, insurance carrier, building or fire officials, and
B.2.2.2.1 Fire protection assets are acquired in order to attain        so forth), the authority having jurisdiction, and the design
one or more of the following four goals:                                engineer -- work together to prioritize the basic fire protection

(1) To provide life safety (occupants, employees, fire fighters,        goals. Prioritizing is based on the stakeholder's objective and
                                                                        the building and occupancy involved. For example, life safety is
and so forth)                                                           a high priority in a hospital or stadium, while property protec-

2019 Edition                     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                            ANNEX B                                                       72-315

tion might have an equally high priority in a large warehouse        Table B.2.2.4.1(c) Defining Goals and Objectives -- Continuity
or historic building.                                                of Operations

B.2.2.3 Identify Stakeholder's Objectives.                           Fire protection goal     Provide continuity of operations
B.2.2.3.1 Each stakeholder must explicitly state her or his          Stakeholder's objective  Prevent any interruption to business
objectives in terms of acceptable loss for the various goals previ-  Design objective
ously stated.                                                                                   operations in excess of 2 hours
                                                                                              Limit the temperature and the
                                                                                              concentration of HCl to within
B.2.2.3.2 Stakeholder objectives specify how much safety the                                  acceptable levels for continued
stakeholder wants, needs, or can afford. "No loss of life within                              operation of the equipment
the room of origin" is a sample stakeholder objective or state-
ment of the stakeholder's maximum acceptable loss.                   Performance criteria Provide detection such that
                                                                                                          operation of a gaseous
B.2.2.3.3 The stakeholder's objectives are generally not stated                                           suppression system will maintain
in fire protection engineering terms.                                                                     temperatures below xx°C (°F) and
                                                                                                          HCl levels below yy ppm
Y B.2.2.3.4 Note that in a performance-based code environ-
                                                                     B.2.2.5 Define Performance Criteria.
ment, the Code will most likely define a performance objective       B.2.2.5.1 Once the design objective has been established,
                                                                     specific, quantitatively expressed criteria that indicate attain-
L or stakeholder objective.                                          ment of the performance objective are developed.
N B.2.2.4 Define Design Objectives.                                  B.2.2.5.2 Performance criteria provide a yardstick or thresh-
                                                                     old values that can measure a potential design's success in
B.2.2.4.1 The stakeholder's objective must then be explicitly        meeting stakeholder objectives and their associated design
                                                                     objectives. [25]
O stated and quantified in fire protection engineering terms that    B.2.2.5.3 Quantification of the design objectives into perform-
                                                                     ance criteria involves determination of the various fire-induced
describe how the objective will be achieved. This demands that       stresses that are a reflection of the stated loss objectives.
                                                                     Performance criteria can be expressed in various terms, includ-
E the design objectives be expressed quantitatively. See Table       ing temperature, radiant flux, a rate of heat release, or concen-
                                                                     tration of a toxic or corrosive species that must not be
B.2.2.4.1(a) through Table B.2.2.4.1(c).                             exceeded.
                                                                     B.2.2.5.4 Once the design performance criteria are estab-
S B.2.2.4.2 The design objective provides a description of how       lished, appropriate safety factors are applied to obtain the
                                                                     working design criteria. The working design criteria reflect the
the stakeholder's objective will be achieved in general fire         performance that must be achieved by the detection system.
                                                                     This performance level must allow appropriate actions to be
U protection engineering terms prior to this description being       undertaken (e.g., actuate suppression systems, occupants'
                                                                     egress, notify fire department, and so forth) to meet the objec-
quantified. The general objective is then reduced to explicit        tives. An acceptable fire detection system design provides the
                                                                     detection of the fire sufficiently early in its development to
L and quantitative fire protection engineering terms. The            permit the other fire protection systems to meet or exceed the
                                                                     relevant performance criteria established for those systems.
explicit fire protection engineering objectives provide a            B.2.2.5.5 Throughout the process identified as Phase I and II,
                                                                     communication should be maintained with the authorities
A performance benchmark against which the predicted perform-         having jurisdiction (AHJs) to review and develop consensus on
                                                                     the approach being taken. It is recommended that this commu-
ance of a candidate design is evaluated.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Table B.2.2.4.1(a) Defining Goals and Objectives -- Life
IV Safety
D Fire protection goal    Provide life safety
                          No loss of life within compartment         nication commence as early in the design process as possible.
   Stakeholder's objective
                            of origin
IN Design objective       Maintain tenable conditions within
FOR Performance criteria
                            the compartment of origin
                          Maintain:

                             Temperatures below xx°C (°F)
                             Visibility above yy m (ft)
                             CO concentration below zz ppm
                            for tt minutes

Table B.2.2.4.1(b) Defining Goals and Objectives -- Property         The AHJ should also be involved in the development of
Protection                                                           performance criteria. Often the acceptance of a performance-
                                                                     based design in lieu of a design based on a prescriptive
                                                                     approach relies on demonstrating equivalence. This is called
Fire protection goal  Provide protection of property                 the comparative method, where the designer demonstrates that
Stakeholder's objective No fire damage outside
                                                                     the performance-based design responds at least as well as, if
                          compartment of origin                      not better than, a system designed using a prescriptive
Design objective          Limit the spread of flame to the           approach.

                          compartment of origin
Performance criteria Maintain upper layer temperature
                          below xx°C (°F) and radiation
                          level to the floor below yy kW/m2
                          (Btu/sec·ft 2) to prevent flashover

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-316        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

B.2.3 Phase II -- System Design and Evaluation.                     ing, pre-movement times, motivation, state of wakefulness,
B.2.3.1 Develop Fire Scenarios.                                     familiarity, capacity, and layout of the means of egress.
B.2.3.1.1 General.
B.2.3.1.1.1 A fire scenario defines the development of a fire          Due to the nature of human behavior, it is difficult to accu-
and the spread of combustion products throughout a compart-         rately quantify the movements and evacuation times of occu-
ment or building. A fire scenario represents a set of fire condi-   pants from a building. Thus, particular attention should be
tions that are deemed a threat to a building and its occupants      given to assumptions and uncertainties assigned to these occu-
and/or contents, and, therefore, should be addressed in the         pant characteristics.
design of the fire protection features of the structure. [25]       B.2.3.1.4 Fire Characteristics.
                                                                    B.2.3.1.4.1 Fire characteristics include the following:

B.2.3.1.1.2 The process of developing a fire scenario is a          (1) Ignition sources -- temperature, energy, time, and area
                                                                                    of contact with potential fuels
combination of hazard analysis and risk analysis. The hazard                 (2) Initial fuels
analysis identifies potential ignition sources, fuels, and fire
development. Risk is the probability of occurrence multiplied                       (a) State. Fuels can come in various states (i.e., solid,
                                                                                           liquid, or gas). Each state can have very different
Y by the consequences of that occurrence. The risk analysis looks                          combustion characteristics (i.e., a solid block of
L at the impact of the fire to the surroundings or target items.                           wood versus wood shavings versus wood dust)

B.2.3.1.1.3 The fire scenario should include a description of                       (b) Type and quantity of fuel. A fire's development and
                                                                                           duration depends also on what is burning.
N various conditions, including building characteristics, occupant                         Cellulosic-based materials burn quite differently
                                                                                           compared to plastics, or flammable liquids, in terms
characteristics, and fire characteristics. [25, 40]                                        of producing different fire growth rates, heat
                                                                                           release rates, and products of combustion.
O B.2.3.1.2 Building Characteristics. Building characteristics
                                                                                    (c) Fuel configuration. The geometrical arrangement of
include the following:                                                                     the fuel can also influence the fire growth rate and
                                                                                           heat release rate. A wood block will burn very differ-
E (1) Configuration (area; ceiling height; ceiling configuration,                          ently from a wood crib, as there is more surface area
 S such as flat, sloped beams; windows and doors, and ther-                                and ventilation, and radiation feedback between the
                                                                                           combustible materials is increased.
       modynamic properties)
                                                                                    (d) Fuel location. The location of the fuel (i.e., against
U (2) Environment (ambient temperature, humidity, back-                                    wall, in corner, in open, against the ceiling) will
       ground noise, and so forth)                                                         influence the development of the fire. Fires in the
(3) Equipment (heat-producing equipment, HVAC, manufac-                                    corner of a room or against a wall will typically grow
                                                                                           faster than a fire located in the center of a room.
 L turing equipment, and so forth)
                                                                                    (e) Heat release rate. The rate at which heat is released
(4) Functioning characteristics (occupied, during times, days,                             depends on the fuel's heat of combustion, the mass
                                                                                           loss rate, the combustion efficiency, and the amount
 A and so forth)                                                                           of incident heat flux. The mass loss rate also directly
                                                                                           relates to the production rate of smoke, toxic gases,
(5) Target locations                                                                       and other products of combustion.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (6) Potential ignition sources                                  (f) Fire growth rate. Fires grow at various rates that are
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (7) Aesthetic or historic preservation considerations              dependent on type of fuel, configuration, and
                                                                                           amount of ventilation. Some fires such as confined
   (Note target items -- that is, areas associated with stake-                             flammable liquid fires might not be growing fires as
holder objectives -- along the expected route of spread for                                their burning area is fixed. These are referred to as
                                                                                           steady state fires. The faster a fire develops, the
IV flame, heat, or other combustion products.)                                             faster the temperature rises, and the faster the prod-
                                                                                           ucts of combustion are produced.
B.2.3.1.3 Occupant Characteristics. Occupant characteristics
                                                                                    (g) Production rate of combustion products (smoke, CO, CO2,
D include the following:
IN (1) Alertness (sleeping, awake, and so forth)

(2) Age
(3) Mobility
(4) Quantity and location within the building

R (5) Sex

(6) Responsiveness

O (7) Familiarity with the building
F(8) Mental challenges
   Human behavior plays a key role in life safety, as well as with                etc.). As the characteristics of various fuels vary, so
the other fire safety goals. (See SFPE Engineering Guide to Human                 will the type of quantity of materials generated
Behavior in Fire.) The possible actions that could be taken upon                  during combustion. Species production rates can be
detecting a fire as well as how one reacts once they hear an                      estimated with species yields, which are representa-
alarm need to be considered. These actions can include alert-                     tive of the mass of species produced per mass of fuel
ing and rescuing other family members, gathering belongings,                      loss.
interpreting or verifying the message, shutting down processes.     (3) Secondary fuels -- proximity to initial fuels; amount;
They should also include a look at how individuals respond on              distribution, ease of ignitibility (see initial fuels); and exten-
their own as well as in group situations.                                  sion potential (beyond compartment, structure, area, if
                                                                           outside)

   Once these occupant characteristics and their behavior have               B.2.3.1.4.2 An example of a fire scenario in a computer room
been analyzed, one might also want to determine evacuation                   might be as follows.
times. Numerous factors again need to be considered, includ-
ing number of occupants, distribution throughout the build-

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

          ANNEX B                                                                                                          72-317

The computer room is 9.1 m × 6 m (30 ft × 20 ft) and 2.8 m           specifying the duration of this period. The fire growth rate of
(8 ft) high. It is occupied 12 hours a day, 5 days a week. The       flaming fires is determined by a variety of factors, including the
occupants are mobile and familiar with the building. There are       following:
no fixed fire suppression systems protecting this location. The
fire department is capable of responding to the scene in             (1) Type of fuel and ease of ignition
6 minutes, and an additional 15 minutes for fire ground evolu-       (2) Fuel configuration and orientation
tion is needed.                                                      (3) Location of secondary fuel packages
                                                                     (4) Proximity of fire to walls and corners
                                                                     (5) Ceiling height
   Overheating of a resistor leads to the ignition of a printed      (6) Ventilation
circuit board and interconnecting cabling. This leads to a fire
   that quickly extends up into the above-ceiling space containing
   power and communications cabling. The burning of this                It is important to note when using heat release data that the
   cabling produces large quantities of dense, acrid smoke and       fuel burning as well as the compartment in which it is burning
   corrosive products of combustion that spread throughout the       need to be considered together. A couch can produce suffi-
   computer suite. This causes the loss of essential computer and    cient heat to cause flashover in a small compartment, whereas
   telecommunications services for 2 months.                         this same couch placed in a large compartment with high ceil-
                                                                     ings can cause a limited fire and never reach flashover.
Y B.2.3.2 Develop Design Fires.
L B.2.3.2.1 General.                                                    Several sources for developing design fires should be
N B.2.3.2.1.1 The design fire is the fire the system is intended to  reviewed, including SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering
                                                                     [41]; NFPA 101; NFPA 5000; and SFPE Engineering Guide to
   detect. When specifying a design fire, the specifics regarding    Performance Based Fire Protection [40].
                                                                     B.2.3.2.1.3 Designers might also need to consider fires that
O the ignition, growth, steady-state output (if appropriate), and    might be related to extreme events. These can either be fires
                                                                     used to trigger extreme events, or post-extreme-event-induced
   decay of the fire are expressed quantitatively.                   fires. If these are deemed credible, then designers should take
                                                                     these into consideration as design fires and also with respect to
 E There are numerous analysis techniques available to identify      the overall reliability, redundancy, and robustness of the detec-
S fire scenarios. These can typically fall into one of two catego-   tion system to function during these types of events. [54]
                                                                     B.2.3.2.2 Heat Release Rates.
   ries: probabilistic or deterministic.                             B.2.3.2.2.1 Fires can be characterized by their rate of heat
                                                                     release, measured in terms of the number of kW (Btu/sec) of
 U Probabilistic approaches typically relate to the statistical like-heat liberated. Typical maximum heat release rates (Qm) for a
                                                                     number of different fuels and fuel configurations are provided
   lihood that ignition will occur, and the resultant outcome if a   in Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a) and Table B.2.3.2.6.2(c). The heat
                                                                     release rate of a fire can be described as a product of a heat
L fire does occur. Probabilistic approaches could use the follow-    release density and fire area using the following equation:

   ing as sources of data:                                                                                       [B.2.3.2.2.1]

A (1) Fire statistics (ignition, first items ignited, and so on)                         Q     = qA
                                                                                            m
   (2) Past history

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (3) Hazard/failure analysis

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (4) Failure modes and effects analysis (FMEA)

ID (5) Event trees

   (6) Fault trees

IV (7) HAZOP studies

   (8) Cause-consequence analysis

 D Deterministic approaches use analysis or engineering judg-

   ment that is based on chemistry, physics, or correlations based

IN on experimental data.
       The selection of the design fire scenario and the supporting
   analysis techniques should be appropriate to the premise or

R processes. Inappropriate scenario selection or analysis can

   result in conservative designs that are not economical or

Odesigns with unacceptably high risks.
F B.2.3.2.1.2 Fire development varies depending on the

   combustion characteristics of the fuel or fuels involved, the
   physical configuration of the fuels, the availability of combus-
   tion air, and the influences due to the compartment. Once a
                                                                     where:
                                                                     Qm = maximum or peak heat release rate [kW (Btu/sec)]

                                                                       q = heat release rate density per unit floor area [kW/m2
                                                                            (Btu/sec·ft2)]

                                                                      A = floor area of the fuel [m2 (ft2)]
                                                                     B.2.3.2.2.2 The following example is provided: A particular
                                                                     hazard analysis is to be based on a fire scenario involving a
                                                                     3.05 m × 3.05 m (10 ft × 10 ft) stack of wood pallets stored
                                                                     1.5 m (5 ft) high. Approximately what peak heat release rate
                                                                     can be expected?

stable flame is attained, most fires grow in an accelerating         From Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a), the heat release rate density (q)
pattern (see Figure B.2.3.2.3.5), reach a steady state character-
ized by a maximum heat release rate, and then enter into a          for 1.5 m (5 ft) high wood pallets is approximately 3745 kW/m2
                                                                     (330 Btu/sec·ft2).
decay period as the availability of either fuel or combustion air
becomes limited. Fire growth and development are limited by             The area is 3.05 m × 3.05 m (10 ft × 10 ft), or 9.29 m2
factors such as quantity of fuel, arrangement of fuel, quantity of   (100 ft2). Using equation B.1 to determine the heat release rate
oxygen, and the effect of manual and automatic suppression           yields the following:

systems.                                                             3745 × 9.29 = 34,791 kW (330 × 100 = 33,000 Btu/sec)

   For design fires with a smoldering period, very little data are
available. The design engineer should, therefore, be careful in

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-318                                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

   As indicated in the Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a), this fire generally        fire growth model. Prior to tv, the fuels might have smoldered
produces a medium to fast fire growth rate, reaching 1055 kW            but did not burn vigorously with an open flame. The model
(1000 Btu/sec) in approximately 90 to 190 seconds.                      curves are then predicted by the following equations:

B.2.3.2.3 Fire Growth Rate.                                                                                                                   [B.2.3.2.3.4a]

B.2.3.2.3.1 Fires can also be defined by their growth rate or                                              Q = (t -t )2
the time (tg) it takes for the fire to reach a given heat release                                                                v

rate. Previous research [16] has shown that most fires grow             and
exponentially and can be expressed by what is termed the
"power law fire growth model":

                                                        [B.2.3.2.3.1]                                                                         [B.2.3.2.3.4b]

Y where:                        Q tp                                                    Q  =       1055      (t      - tv )2  (for SI units)
                                                                                                           
Q = heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)                                                                t  2
                                                                                                        g
L t = time (seconds)
                                                                        or
p=2
                                                                                                                                              [B.2.3.2.3.4c]
N B.2.3.2.3.2 In fire protection, fuel packages are often descri-
O bed as having a growth time (tg). This is the time necessary                             1000    
                                                                                                   
after the ignition with a stable flame for the fuel package to
attain a heat release rate of 1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec). The

E following equations describe the growth of design fires:
                                                                                  Q  =        2      (t    - tv  )2  (for inch-pound units)
                                                                                              g
                                                                                           t

                 L US Q
                                                        [B.2.3.2.3.2a]     where:
                                                                           Q = heat release rate [kW or (Btu/sec)]
                       1055     t  2  (for SI units)                        = fire growth rate [1055/tg2 (kW/sec2) or 1000/tg2

A or                =     t  2                                                   (Btu/sec3)]
                             g                                              tg = fire growth time to reach 1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec)
                                                                            t = time after established burning occurs (seconds)
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U [B.2.3.2.3.2b]                                          tv = virtual time of origin (seconds)
                                                                           B.2.3.2.3.5 Figure B.2.3.2.3.5 is an example of actual test data
                                                                           with a power law curve superimposed.
                                                                         B.2.3.2.3.6 For purposes of this annex, fires are classified as
                                                                           being either slow-, medium-, or fast-developing from the time
                                                                           that established burning occurs until the fire reaches a heat
                                                                           release rate of 1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec). Table B.2.3.2.3.6
                                                                           results from using B.2.3.2.3.2. [See also Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a).]
                                                                           B.2.3.2.4 Flame Height.
                                                                           B.2.3.2.4.1 There are a number of flame height to heat
                                                                           release rate correlations available that can be used to deter-
                                                                           mine an appropriate design fire. The differences in the various
                                                                           correlations arise from the different data sets and curve-fitting
              ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Q
IV and thus      1000     2
              =        t        (for inch-pound units)
                 t  2
                    g

                             IND Q =t2                  [B.2.3.2.3.2c]

where:                                                                  4000                                         tg = 100 sec (fast)      3792
Q = heat release rate [kW or (Btu/sec)]                                 3000                                                                  2844
                                                                        Heat release rate (kW)
R  = fire growth rate [1055/tg2 (kW/sec2) or 1000/tg2 (Btu/sec                                                                                                      Heat release rate (Btu/sec)
      3)]

O tg = fire growth time to reach 1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec) after
Festablished burning

 t = time after established burning occurs (seconds)

B.2.3.2.3.3 Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a) and Table B.2.3.2.6.2(e)               2000                                                                  1896
provide values for tg, the time necessary to reach a heat release
rate of 1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec), for a variety of materials in           1000                                                                  948
various configurations.
B.2.3.2.3.4 Test data from 40 furniture calorimeter tests, as               0  0        100                200       300            400       500
indicated in Table B.2.3.2.6.2(e), have been used to independ-
ently verify the power law fire growth model, Q = t2. [14] For                    tv = 50                  Time (sec)
reference, the table contains the test numbers used in the origi-
nal NIST reports.

   The virtual time of origin (tv) is the time at which a stable        FIGURE B.2.3.2.3.5 Test 38, Foam Sofa. (Courtesy of R. P.
flame had appeared and the fires began to obey the power law            Schifiliti Associates, Inc.)

2019 Edition                       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                          ANNEX B                                                                                                                     72-319

 Table B.2.3.2.3.6 Power Law Heat Release Rates

  Fire Growth                      Growth Time                                                               
       Rate                               (tg)                                  (kW/sec2)              (Btu/sec3)

Slow                                tg  400 sec                                   0.0066                  0.0063
Medium                           150  tg < 400 sec                        0.0066 <   0.0469       0.0063 <   0.0445
Fast
                                    tg < 150 sec                                > 0.0469                > 0.0445

methods used by the researchers. One such correlation is                                                    Q (kW)
shown in Figure B.2.3.2.4.1. It indicates that flame height and
                                                                                             105   1055                   10,550              105,500
                                                                                             100                                              30.5
fire heat release rate are directly related. [2] The lines in
Figure B.2.3.2.4.1 were derived from the following equation:                                                                                  15.2
                                                                 Y 2/5                                                                        12.2
                                                                                                                       Fire adjacent to wall  9.1
                                                                                                                       k=2                    6.1

                                                                                             50
                                 L h
                                   f
                                                                          [B.2.3.2.4.1a]
                                 N (for SI units)
                                      = 0.182(kQ )                                           40

                                                                                                   Fire in corner
                                                                                                   k=4
O or                                                                                         30

                                                                                             20
                             E h
                                f
                                                                                             Flame height, hf (ft)
                                                                                                                                                                                Flame height, hf (m)
                             S (for inch-pound units)
                                                                          [B.2.3.2.4.1b]

                                                        2  /  5                              10                      Fire away from walls     3.0
U where:                              0.584      (kQ
                                 =                     )                                                             k=1
  hf = flame height (m or ft)
                                                                                             5                                                1.5
L k = wall effect factor
                                                                                             4                                                1.2
  Q = heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
                                                                                             3                                                0.9
 A Where there are no nearby walls, use k = 1.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Where the fuel package is near a wall, use k = 2.    2                                                0.6
 ID Where the fuel package is in a corner, use k = 4.
                                                                                             1     1000  ·                10,000                    0.3
  B.2.3.2.4.2 The following example is provided: What is the                                  100                                             100,000

IV average flame height of a fire with a heat release rate of                                            Q (Btu/sec)

  1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec) located in the middle of a compart-

D ment?
     From Figure B.2.3.2.4.1, find the heat release rate on the

IN abscissa and read estimated flame height from the ordinate, or

  use equation B.2.3.2.4.1a or B.2.3.2.4.1b:
                                                                                             FIGURE B.2.3.2.4.1 Heat Release Rate vs. Flame Height.

                       R [B.2.3.2.4.2a]                                                                                                       [B.2.3.2.4.2e]

                      h                                                                            h        = 2.8 m       (9.25 ft)
                                                                                                      f
FO f
                                              2  /  5                                        Another correlation has been derived by Drysdale [42]:

                          =  0.182  (kQ      )         (for SI units) or

                                                                                                                                              [B.2.3.2.4.2f]

                                                                          [B.2.3.2.4.2b]           I = 0.235Q 2/5 - 1.02D
                                                                                                                          c

h                         0.584  (kQ   2  /  5   (for inch-pound units)
   f
                       =              )                                                      where:
                                                                                              I = the flame height (m)
                                                                          [B.2.3.2.4.2c]
                                                                                             Qc = the convective heat release rate (kW)
                          h = 0.182(1×1.055 kW )2/5 or                                       D = the diameter of the fuel bed
                             f
                                                                                                These correlations will not produce the same prediction
                                                                    [B.2.3.2.4.2d]           when used for exactly the same input data. There is inherent
                                                                                             uncertainty in the calculated flame height due to the fact that
                       h = 0.584 (1×1.000 Btu/sec)2/5 or                                     the flaming combustion in the diffusion regime is a dynamic
                          f                                                                  phenomenon. The designer should run multiple predictions
                                                                                             with bounding values to address the inherent uncertainty of
                                                                                             the correlations.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-320                                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

B.2.3.2.5 Selection of Critical Fire Size. Because all fire                          B.2.3.2.5.5 Occupants do not always respond immediately to a
control means require a finite operation time, there is a critical                   fire alarm. The following must be accounted for when evaluat-
difference between the time at which the fire must be detected                       ing occupant safety issues:
and the time at which it achieves the magnitude of the design
fire. Even though a fire has been detected, this does not mean                       (1) Time expected for occupants to hear the alarm (due to
that it stops growing. Fires typically grow exponentially until                             sleeping or manufacturing equipment noise)
they become ventilation controlled, and limited by the availa-
bility of fuel, or until some type of fire suppression or extin-                     (2) Time to decipher the message (e.g., voice alarm system)
guishment is commenced. Figure B.2.3.2.5 shows that there can                        (3) Time to decide whether to leave (get dressed, gather
be a significant increase in the heat release rate with only a
                                                                                            belongings, call security)
                                                                                     (4) Time to travel to an exit

small change in time due to the exponential growth rate of                           B.2.3.2.5.6 Response of the fire department or fire brigade to
fire.                                                                                a fire incident involves several different actions that need to
                                                                                     occur sequentially before containment and extinguishment
B.2.3.2.5.1 Once the design objectives and the design fire                           efforts of the fire can even begin. These actions should also be
have been established, the designer will need to establish two                       taken into account to properly design detection systems that
points on the design fire curve: QDO and QCR.                                        meet the design objectives. These actions typically include the
                                                                                     following:
LY B.2.3.2.5.2 QDO represents the heat release rate, or product
                                                                                      (1) Detection (detector delays, control unit delays, and so
release rate, which produces conditions representative of the                                forth)

N design objective. This is the "design fire." However, QDO does                      (2) Notification to the monitoring station (remote, central
                                                                                             station, proprietary, and so forth)
not represent the point in time at which detection is needed.
Detection must occur sufficiently early in the development of                         (3) Notification of the fire department
                                                                                      (4) Alarm handling time at the fire department
O the fire to allow for any intrinsic reaction time of the detection                  (5) Turnout time at the station
                                                                                      (6) Travel time to the incident
as well as the operation time for fire suppression or extinguish-                     (7) Access to the site
                                                                                      (8) Set-up time on site
E ing systems. There will be delays in both detection of the fire as                  (9) Access to building
                                                                                     (10) Access to fire floor
well as the response of equipment, or persons, to the alarm.                         (11) Access to area of involvement
                                                                                     (12) Application of extinguishant on the fire
S B.2.3.2.5.3 A critical fire size (QCR) is identified on the curve                  B.2.3.2.5.7 Unless conditions that limit the availability of
U that accounts for the delays in detection and response. This                       combustion air or fuel exist, neither the growth of the fire nor
                                                                                     the resultant damage stop until fire suppression begins. The
point represents the maximum permissible fire size at which                          time needed to execute each step of the fire response sequence
detection must occur that allows appropriate actions to be                           of actions must be quantified and documented. When design-
                                                                                     ing a detection system, the sum of the time needed for each
L taken to keep the fire from exceeding the design objective                         step in the response sequence (tdelay) must be subtracted from
A (QDO).                                                                             the time at which the fire attains the design objective (tDO) in
                                                                                     order to determine the latest time and fire size (QCR) in the fire
B.2.3.2.5.4 Delays are inherent in both the detection system as                      development at which detection can occur and still achieve the
                                                                                     system design objective.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U well as in the response of the equipment or people that need to  B.2.3.2.5.8 The fire scenarios and design fires selected should
                                                                                     include analysis of best and worst-case conditions and their like-
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} react once a fire is detected. Delays associated with the detec-lihood of occurring. It is important to look at different condi-
                                                                                     tions and situations and their effects on response.
ID tion system include a lag in the transport of combustion prod-                    B.2.3.2.6 Data Sources.
                                                                                     B.2.3.2.6.1 To produce a design fire curve, information is
ucts from the fire to the detector and response time lag of the

IV detector, alarm verification time, processing time of the detec-

tor, and processing time of the control unit. Delays are also
possible with an automatic fire extinguishing system(s) or

D suppression system(s). Delay can be introduced by alarm verifi-

cation or crossed zone detection systems, filling and discharge

IN times of preaction systems, delays in agent release required for

occupant evacuation (e.g., CO2 systems), and the time required
to achieve extinguishment.

  OR Without
F suppression
                                                                                     needed regarding the burning characteristics of the object(s)
                                                                                     involved. Data can be obtained from either technical literature
Heat release rate  QDO                                                               or by conducting small or large scale calorimeter tests.

                                          With                                       B.2.3.2.6.2 Some information is contained in Figure
                                          suppression                                B.2.3.2.6.2 and Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a) through Table
                                                                                     B.2.3.2.6.2(e).

                   Q                                                                 B.2.3.2.6.3 Graphs of heat release data from the 40 furniture
                      CR                                                             calorimeter tests can be found in Investigation of a New Sprinkler
                                                                                     Sensitivity Approval Test: The Plunge Test [8]. Best fit power law
                          tCR        tDO                                             fire growth curves have been superimposed on the graphs.
                                                                                     Data from these curves can be used with this guide to design or
                               Time                                                  analyze fire detection systems that are intended to respond to

FIGURE B.2.3.2.5 Critical and Design Objective Heat
Release Rates vs. Time.

2019 Edition                         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        ANNEX B                                                                72-321

 Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a) Maximum Heat Release Rates -- Warehouse Materials

                                                                     Growth Time    Heat Release Density
                                                                           (tg)                 (q)
                                                                          (sec)
Warehouse Materials                                                                 kW/m2          Btu/sec·ft2           Classification

1. Wood pallets, stack, 0.46 m (112 ft) high (6%­12% moisture)       150­310        1,248                        110     fast­medium
2. Wood pallets, stack, 1.52 m (5 ft) high (6%­12% moisture)         90­190         3,745                        330     fast
3. Wood pallets, stack, 3.05 m (10 ft) high (6%­12% moisture)        80­110         6,810                        600     fast
4. Wood pallets, stack, 4.88 m (16 ft) high (6%­12% moisture)        75­105         10,214                       900     fast
5. Mail bags, filled, stored 1.52 m (5 ft) high                      190            397                          35      medium
6. Cartons, compartmented, stacked 4.57 m (15 ft) high               60             2,270                        200     fast
  7. Paper, vertical rolls, stacked 6.10 m (20 ft) high              15­28            --             --                         *
  8. Cotton (also PE, PE/cot, acrylic/nylon/PE), garments in         20­42            --             --                         *
                                                                     40­280           --             --                  fast­medium
Y 3.66 m (12 ft) high racks                                                           --             --                       slow
                                                                       470          8,512           750                    medium
  9. Cartons on pallets, rack storage, 4.57 m­9.14 m (15 ft­30 ft)     190          2,837           250                        fast
                                                                        55          1,248           110                        fast
L high                                                                  85          6,242           550                        fast
                                                                        85          1,929           170                        fast
  10. Paper products, densely packed in cartons, rack storage,          75            --             --                        fast
                                                                       130            --             --                        fast
N 6.10 m (20 ft) high                                                30­55            --             --                        fast
                                                                       110          1,929           170                         *
  11. PE letter trays, filled, stacked 1.52 m (5 ft) high on cart                   13,619         1,200                       fast
                                                                        8           5,107           450                        fast
O 12. PE trash barrels in cartons, stacked 4.57 m (15 ft) high          55          2,042           180                        fast
                                                                       105          3,291           290                         *
  13. FRP shower stalls in cartons, stacked 4.57 m (15 ft) high        110          3,405           300                         *
                                                                        7           4,426           390                         *
E 14. PE bottles, packed in item 6                                      9           3,972           350                         *
                                                                        10            --             --                         *
  15. PE bottles in cartons, stacked 4.57 m (15 ft) high                40           738            65                          --
                                                                     23­40          2,270           200                         --
S 16. PE pallets, stacked 0.91 m (3 ft) high                            --          2,270           200                         --
                                                                        --          2,043           180                         --
  17. PE pallets, stacked 1.83 m­2.44 m (6 ft­8 ft) high                --
                                                                        --
U 18. PU mattress, single, horizontal

  19. PE insulation board, rigid foam, stacked 4.57 m (15 ft) high

L 20. PS jars, packed in item 6

  21. PS tubs nested in cartons, stacked 4.27 m (14 ft) high

A 22. PS toy parts in cartons, stacked 4.57 m (15 ft) high

  23. PS insulation board, rigid, stacked 4.27 m (14 ft) high

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 24. PVC bottles, packed in item 6

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 25. PP tubs, packed in item 6

ID 26. PP and PE film in rolls, stacked 4.27 m (14 ft) high

  27. Distilled spirits in barrels, stacked 6.10 m (20 ft) high

IV 28. Methyl alcohol

  29. Gasoline
  30. Kerosene

D 31. Diesel oil
PE: Polyethylene. PS: Polystyrene. PVC: Polyvinyl chloride. PP: Polypropylene. PU: Polyurethane. FRP: Fiberglass-reinforced polyester.

IN Note: The heat release rates per unit floor area are for fully involved combustibles, assuming 100 percent combustion efficiency. The growth times

shown are those required to exceed 1000 Btu/sec heat release rate for developing fires, assuming 100 percent combustion efficiency.
*Fire growth rate exceeds design data.
R similar items burning under a flat ceiling. Table B.2.3.2.6.2(e)
FOis a summary of the data.                                          Table B.2.3.2.6.2(b) Maximum Heat Release Rates from Fire
                                                                     Detection Institute Analysis

B.2.3.2.6.4 In addition to heat release rate data, the original                                                      Approximate Values
NIST reports [3] contain data on particulate conversion and
radiation from the test specimens. These data can be used to
determine the threshold fire size (heat release rate) at which                     Materials                         kW  Btu/sec
tenability becomes endangered or the point at which addi-            Medium wastebasket with
tional fuel packages might become involved in the fire.                                                          105     100
                                                                       milk cartons
                                                                     Large barrel with milk                      148     140
B.2.3.2.6.5 The NFPA Fire Protection Handbook [22], SFPE Hand-         cartons                                   369     350
book of Fire Protection Engineering, and Upholstered Furniture Heat                                              1265    1200
Release Rates Measured with a Furniture Calorimeter [3] contain      Upholstered chair with
further information on heat release rates and fire growth rates.       polyurethane foam

                                                                     Latex foam mattress (heat at
                                                                     room door)
B.2.3.2.6.6 Technical literature searches can be performed           Furnished living room (heat 4217­8435               4000­8000
using a number of resources including FIREDOC, a document
base of fire literature that is maintained by NIST.                  at open door)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.          2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-322                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Table B.2.3.2.6.2(c) Unit Heat Release Rates for Fuels Burning    Reliability studies can be part of RAMS studies (i.e., reliabil-
                                                                  ity, availability, maintainability, and safety). RAMS is a tool that
in the Open                                                       is used to manage dependability in "mission critical" systems.

                          Heat Release Rate                       These are all factors that should be considered to ensure the
                                                                  system will continue to operate as designed, as well as provide
        Commodity         kW       Btu/sec                        ease of recommended maintenance and technician safety

Flammable liquid pool     3291/m2 290/ft2 of surface              during maintenance.

Flammable liquid spray    557/Lpm  2000/gpm of flow                  The basis of RAMS is a systematic process, based on the
Pallet stack               3459/m  1000/ft of height              system life cycle and tasks within it, that does the following:
Wood or PMMA* (vertical)
0.6 m (2 ft) height       104/m    30/ft of width                 (1) Assists the client to specify system requirements, in terms
                                                                  of dependability, from a general mission statement to
1.8 m (6 ft) height       242/m    70/ft of width                        availability targets for systems, subsystems, and compo-
   2.4 m (8 ft) height     623/m    180/ft of width                      nents (including software)
   3.7 m (12 ft) height   1038/m    300/ft of width               (2) Assesses proposed designs, using formal RAMS techni-
Wood or PMMA*             715/m2   63/ft2 of surface                     ques, to see how targets are met and where objectives are
                           218/m     63/ft of width                      not achieved
Y Top of horizontal surface450/m    130/ft of width               (3) Provides a means to make recommendations to designers
                          1384/m    400/ft of width                      and a system of hazard logging, to record and eventually
Solid polystyrene (vertical)2352/m  680/ft of width                      "check off" identified necessary actions
                          1362/m2  120/ft2 of surface                The technical concepts of availability and reliability are
L 0.6 m (2 ft) height      218/m     63/ft of width               based on a knowledge of and means to assess the following:
                           346/m    100/ft of width               (1) All possible system failure modes in the specified applica-
   1.8 m (6 ft) height     969/m    280/ft of width                      tion environment
                          1626/m    470/ft of width               (2) The probability (or rate) of occurrence of a system failure
N 2.4 m (8 ft) height     795/m2   70/ft2 of surface                     mode
                                                                  (3) The cause and effect of each failure mode on the func-
   3.7 m (12 ft) height                                                  tionality of the system
                                                                  (4) Efficient failure detection and location
O Solid polystyrene (horizontal)                                  (5) The efficient restorability of the failed system
                                                                  (6) Economic maintenance over the required life cycle of the
Solid polypropylene (vertical)                                           system
                                                                  (7) Human factors issues regarding safety during inspection,
E 0.6 m (2 ft) height                                                    testing, and maintenance
                                                                  B.2.3.3.3 Various methods are available to evaluate whether a
   1.8 m (6 ft) height                                            candidate design will achieve the previously established
                                                                  performance criteria. Some methods are presented in
S 2.4 m (8 ft) height                                             Section B.3.
                                                                  B.2.3.3.4 Candidate designs developed in the context of
   3.7 m (12 ft) height                                           comparison evaluation might require comparing the response
                                                                  of the detection system designed using a performance-based
U Solid polypropylene                                             approach to that of a prescriptive-based design. It could also be
  (horizontal)                                                    evaluated against acceptance criteria previously established
L *Polymethyl methacrylate (PlexiglasTM, LuciteTM, Acrylic).      with applicable stakeholders.
                                                                     In addition to the preceding operational and response char-
[92B: Table B.1, 1995.]                                           acteristics that need to be considered, there might be limita-
                                                                  tions set on the amount of disruption, visibility, or the impact
                                                                  the system will have on the space in which it is to be installed.
A B.2.3.2.6.7 A series of design fire curves are included as part
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U of the "FASTLite" computer program available from NIST.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B.2.3.2.6.8 In addition, there are various organizations

conducting tests and posting results of various test data on
their websites, including the UK's British Research Establish-

IV ment (BRE), Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and NIST's FAST-

Data Fire Test Database.

D B.2.3.3 Develop and Evaluate Candidate Fire Detection

Systems.

IN B.2.3.3.1 Once the design objectives, the potential fire scenar-

ios, and the room characteristics are well understood, the
designer can select an appropriate detection strategy to detect

R the fire before its critical fire size (QCR) is reached. Important

factors to consider include the type of detector, its sensitivity to

O expected fire signatures, its alarm threshold level and required
Fduration at that threshold, expected installed location (e.g.,
distance from fire, or below ceiling), and freedom from           This is particularly important in heritage-type buildings where
nuisance response to expected ambient conditions. (See Chap-      one would want these to be as unobtrusive as possible, yet not
ter 17 and Annex A.)                                              require ripping down ornate ceilings to install.

B.2.3.3.2 Reliability of the detection system and individual      B.2.3.4 Select and Document Final Design.
components should be computed and included in the selection       B.2.3.4.1 The last step in the process is the preparation of
and evaluation of the candidate fire detection system. A          design documentation and equipment and installation specifi-
performance-based alternative design cannot be deemed             cations.
performance-equivalent unless the alternative design provides
comparable reliability to the prescriptive design it is intended
to replace.

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                           ANNEX B                                                    72-323

 Table B.2.3.2.6.2(d) Characteristics of Ignition Sources

                                                  Typical Heat Output     Burn     Maximum     Flame Width       Maximum Heat Flux
                                                                          Timea  Flame Height  mm in.            kW/m2 Btu/sec · ft2
                                                  W        Btu/sec        (sec)  mm in.

Cigarette 1.1 g (not puffed, laid on solid
surface)
Bone dry                                          5        0.0047         1200 -- --           ----              42   3.7
Conditioned to 50% relative humidity              5        0.0047         1200 -- --           ----              35   3.1
Methenamine pill, 0.15 g (0.0053 oz)              45       0.043          90     ----          ----              4    0.35
Match, wooden, laid on solid surface              80       0.076          20­30 30 1.18 14 0.092 18­20 1.59­1.76
Wood cribs, BS 5852 Part 2
Y No. 6 crib, 60 g (2.1 oz)                       1,000                   190    ----          ----              15d  1.32
No. 4 crib, 8.5 g (0.3 oz)                                 0.95
L Crumpled brown lunch bag, 6 g (0.21 oz)         1,900                          ----          ----              17d  1.50
No. 5 crib, 17 g (0.6 oz)                         2,600    1.80           200                  ----              20d
                                                           2.46           190    ----                                 1.76
N Crumpled wax paper, 4.5 g (0.16 oz) (loose)     6,400    6.07           350                  ----              25d  2.20
No. 7 crib, 126 g (4.4 oz)                        1,200                   80     ----          ----                   --
                                                           1.14                  ----                            --
O (bottom ignition)
Crumpled wax paper, 4.5 g (0.16 oz) (tight)       1,800    1.71           25     ----          ----              --   --
                                                  5,300    5.03           20     ----          ----              --   --
Folded double-sheet newspaper, 22 g (0.78 oz)     4,000    3.79           100    ----          ----              --   --
E (0.78 oz) (top ignition)
Crumpled double-sheet newspaper, 22 g             7,400    7.02           40     ----          ----              --   --
S (0.78 oz) (bottom ignition)
Crumpled double-sheet newspaper, 22 g             17,000   16.12          20     ----          ----              --   --
U with 12 milk cartons [390 g (13.8 oz)]
Polyethylene wastebasket, 285 g (10.0 oz), filled 50,000   47.42          200b 550 21.7 200 7.9                  35c  3.08
L Note: Based on Table B.5.3(b) of NFPA 92, 2012 edition.
A aTime duration of significant flaming.          120,000­ 113.81­        200b                 ----              --   --

  bTotal burn time in excess of 1800 seconds.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U cAs measured on simulation burner.

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} dMeasured from 25 mm away.

ID eResults vary greatly with packing density.
Plastic trash bags, filled with cellulosic trash                                 ----
[1.2­14 kg (42.3­493 oz)]e                        350,000 331.96

IV  B.2.3.4.2 These documents should encompass the following               (8) Design alternative(s) -- describe design alternative(s)
   information [25]:                                                              chosen, basis for selecting and rejecting design alterna-
     (1) Participants in the process -- persons involved, their                   tive(s), heat release rate, assumptions, and limitations.
  D qualifications, function, responsibility, interest, and                       [This step should include the specific design objective
            contributions.                                                        (QDO) and the critical heat release rate (QCR) used,
 IN (2) Scope of work -- purpose of conducting the analysis or                    comparison of results with the performance criteria and
            design, part of the building evaluated, assumptions, and              design objectives, and a discussion of the sensitivity of
            so forth.                                                             the selected design alternative to changes in the build-
 R (3) Design approach -- approach taken, where and why                           ing use, contents, fire characteristics, occupants, and so
            assumptions were made, and engineering tools and                      forth.]
 Omethodologies applied.
     (4) Project information -- hazards, risks, construction type,         (9) Engineering tools and methods used -- description of
                                                                                  engineering tools and methods used in the analysis or
F materials, building use, layout, existing systems, occu-                        design, including appropriate references (literature,
            pant characteristics, and so forth.                                   date, software version, and so forth), assumptions, limita-
     (5) Goals and objectives -- agreed upon goals and objec-                     tions, engineering judgments, input data, validation data
            tives, how they were developed, who agreed to them and                or procedures, and sensitivity analyses.
            when.
     (6) Performance criteria -- clearly identify performance             (10) Drawings and specifications -- detailed design and
            criteria and related objective(s), including any safety,              installation drawings and specification.
            reliability, or uncertainty factors applied, and support for
            these factors where necessary.                                (11) Test, inspection, and maintenance requirements (see
     (7) Fire scenarios and design fires -- description of fire                   Chapter 14).
            scenarios used, bases for selecting and rejecting fire
            scenarios, assumptions, and restrictions.                     (12) Fire safety management concerns -- allowed contents
                                                                                  and materials in the space in order for the design to
                                                                                  function properly, training, education, and so forth.

                                                                          (13) References -- software documentation, technical litera-
                                                                                  ture, reports, technical data sheets, fire test results, and
                                                                          so forth.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-324                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table B.2.3.2.6.2(e) Furniture Heat Release Rates [3, 14, 16]

                                                  Growth                        Fuel Fire Intensity  Virtual Time  Maximum Heat
                                                   Time                           Coefficient ()       (tv) (sec)   Release Rates
                                                    (tg)
Test                                               (sec)  Classification kW/sec2 Btu/sec3
No.           Item/Description/Mass                                                                                kW    Btu/sec

15 Metal wardrobe, 41.4 kg (91.3 lb)              50            fast    0.4220 0.4002                10            750   711
              (total)
18 Chair F33 (trial love seat), 29.2 kg           400           slow    0.0066 0.0063                140           950   901
              (64.4 lb)
19 Chair F21, 28.15 kg (62.01 lb)                 175           medium  0.0344 0.0326                110           350   332
              (initial)
              Y (total) (initial)                               fast                                               2000  1897
19 Chair F21, 28.15 kg (62.01 lb)                 50                    0.4220 0.4002                190            250   237
              (later)                                                                                               250   237
L 21 Metal wardrobe, 40.8 kg (90.0 lb)                                                                              140   133
21 Metal wardrobe, 40.8 kg (90.0 lb)              250           medium  0.0169 0.0160                10             700   664
                                                                                                                    700   664
N 21 Metal wardrobe, 40.8 kg (90.0 lb)                          fast                                                300   285
              (total) (average)                   120                   0.0733 0.0695                60             800   759
                                                                                                                    900   854
O 22 Chair F24, 28.3 kg (62.4 lb)
              (total) (later)                     100           fast    0.1055 0.1001                30            1850  1755
                                                                                                                    700   664
                                                  350           medium  0.0086 0.0082                400            700   664
E 25 Chair F26, 19.2 kg (42.3 lb)
23 Chair F23, 31.2 kg (68.8 lb)                   400           slow    0.0066 0.0063                100           2000  1897
S 27 Chair F29, 14.0 kg (30.9 lb)                 2000          slow                                                950   901
24 Chair F22, 31.2 kg (68.8 lb)                   200                   0.0003 0.0003                150
                                                                medium  0.0264 0.0250                90            2600  2466
U 29 Chair F25, 27.8 kg (61.3 lb) (later)                                                                          2750  2608
26 Chair F27, 29.0 kg (63.9 lb)                   200           medium  0.0264 0.0250                360           3000  2845
                                                  100           fast    0.1055 0.1001                70            3250  3083
28 Chair F28, 29.2 kg (64.4 lb)                   425           slow    0.0058 0.0055                90            3500  3320
              L (initial)                         60            fast    0.2931 0.2780                175           6000  5691
29 Chair F25, 27.8 kg (61.3 lb)                   100           fast    0.1055 0.1001                100           2000  1897
A 31 Chair F31 (love seat), 39.6 kg
30 Chair F30, 25.2 kg (55.6 lb)                   60            fast    0.2931 0.2780                70            5000  4742
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 37 Chair F31 (love seat), 40.4 kg60         fast    0.2931 0.2780                145
              (87.3 lb)                                                                                            3000  2845
ID 38 Chair F32 (sofa), 51.5 kg (113.5 lb)
              8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (89.1 lb)                                                         100
                                                  80            fast    0.1648 0.1563

IV 40 12 in. plywood wardrobe with                100           fast    0.1055 0.1001                50
39 12 in. plywood wardrobe with                   35            *       0.8612 0.8168                20
            fabrics, 68.5 kg (151.0 lb)
D 41 18 in. plywood wardrobe with                 35            *       0.8612 0.8168                40
              fabrics, 68.32 kg (150.6 lb)
IN 42 18 in. plywood wardrobe with fire-          40            *       0.6594 0.6254                40
              fabrics, 36.0 kg (79.4 lb)
                                                  70            fast    0.2153 0.2042                50
              retardant interior finish (initial
              growth)Rretardant interior finish (later
42 18 in. plywood wardrobe with fire-             30            *       1.1722 1.1118                100
O 43 Repeat of 12 in. plywood wardrobe,
F 67.62 kg (149.08 lb)growth)                     30            *       1.1722 1.1118                50

44 18 in. plywood wardrobe with fire-             90            fast    0.1302 0.1235                30            2900  2751
              retardant latex paint, 37.26 kg
              (82.14 lb)
45 Chair F21, 28.34 kg (62.48 lb)                 100           *       0.1055 0.1001                120           2100  1992
46 Chair F21, 28.34 kg (62.48 lb)                 45            *       0.5210 0.4941                130           2600  2466
47 Chair, adj. back metal frame, foam             170           medium  0.0365 0.0346                30            250   237
              cushions, 20.82 kg (45.90 lb)
48 Easy chair CO7, 11.52 kg (25.40 lb)            175           medium  0.0344 0.0326                90            950   901
49 Easy chair F34, 15.68 kg (34.57 lb)            200           medium  0.0264 0.0250                50            200   190
50 Chair, metal frame, minimum                    200           medium  0.0264 0.0250                120           3000  2845
              cushion, 16.52 kg (36.42 lb)
51 Chair, molded fiberglass, no                   120           fast    0.0733 0.0695                20            35    33
              cushion, 5.28 kg (11.64 lb)

                                                                                                                         (continues)

2019 Edition                     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             ANNEX B                                                                                          72-325

 Table B.2.3.2.6.2(e) Continued

                                     Growth                        Fuel Fire Intensity  Virtual Time                       Maximum Heat
                                      Time                           Coefficient ()       (tv) (sec)                        Release Rates
                                       (tg)
Test  Item/Description/Mass           (sec)  Classification kW/sec2 Btu/sec3
No.                                                                                                                        kW     Btu/sec

52 Molded plastic patient chair,     275     medium                0.0140 0.0133         2090                              700                664
      11.26 kg (24.82 lb)
53 Chair, metal frame, padded seat   350     medium                0.0086 0.0082         50                                280                266
      and back, 15.54 kg (34.26 lb)
54 Love seat, metal frame, foam      500     slow                  0.0042 0.0040         210                               300                285
      cushions, 27.26 kg (60.10 lb)
56 Chair, wood frame, latex foam      500      slow                0.0042  0.0040           50                                85                 81
            cushions, 11.2 kg (24.69 lb)350  medium                0.0086  0.0082         500                              1000                949
                                      150    medium                0.0469  0.0445                                          1200               1138
57 Love seat, wood frame, foam                                     0.2497  0.2368            0
                                        65      fast               0.0011  0.0010           40                                25                 24
  Y cushions, 54.6 kg (120.37 lb)    1000      slow                                       750                               450                427
L 61 Wardrobe, 34 in. particleboard,
                                        76      fast               0.1827  0.1733        3700                               600                569
            120.33 kg (265.28 lb)     350    medium                0.0086  0.0082         400                               500                474
                                     1100                          0.0009  0.0009           90                              400                379
N 62 Bookcase, plywood with aluminum           slow
            frame, 30.39 kg (67.00 lb)

O 64 Easy chair, molded flexible
            urethane frame, 15.98 kg
            (35.23 lb)

E 66 Easy chair, 23.02 kg (50.75 lb)

67 Mattress and box spring, 62.36 kg

  S (137.48 lb) (later)

67 Mattress and box spring, 62.36 kg

  U (137.48 lb) (initial)
Note: For tests 19, 21, 29, 42, and 67, different power law curves were used to model the initial and the latter realms of burning. In examples such as

L these, engineers should choose the fire growth parameter that best describes the realm of burning to which the detection system is being designed to

respond.

A *Fire growth exceeds design data.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (14) Critical design assumptions -- should include all
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} assumptions that need to be maintained throughout theFuel fire intensity coefficients [kW/sec2 (Btu/sec3)]
  ID life cycle of the building so that the design functions as
            intended.                                                       0.0468                                0.0065    0.0028
                                                                           (0.0444)                              (0.0062)  (0.0027)
   (15) Critical design features -- should include the design
                                                                   1600                                                             1688
  IV features and parameters that need to be maintained            1400
                                                                                                                                  1477
            throughout the life of the building so that the design
            functions as intended.

D (16) Operations and maintenance manual -- an operation
            and maintenance manual should be developed that
  IN clearly states the requirements for ensuring that the
            components of the performance-based design are
            correctly in place and functioning as designed. All
  Rsubsystems should be identified, as well as their opera-
            tion and interaction with the fire detection system. It
 Oshould also include maintenance and testing frequen-
            cies, methods, and forms. The importance of testing

F interconnected systems should be detailed (i.e., elevator
                                                                   1200Heat release rate (Btu/sec)                                1266
                                                                                                                                                               Heat release rate (kW)1055
                                                                   1000    Fast  Medium                          Slow

                                                                   800                                                            844

                                                                   600                                                            633

                                                                   400                                                            422

                                                                   200                                                                   211

                                                                      0    100 200 300 400 500 600
                                                                        0                     Time (sec)

      recall, suppression systems, HVAC shutdown, and so on).      FIGURE B.2.3.2.6.2 Power Law Heat Release Rates.

(17) Inspection, testing, maintenance, and commissioning --
        requirements for commissioning of systems and any
        special procedures or test methods -- should be docu-      uate not only the detector and whether it operates but also be
        mented as well as inspection, testing, and maintenance     aware of changing conditions including the following:
        procedures to address the design as well as any pertinent  (1) Changes in hazard being protected
        features or systems that need to be assessed.              (2) Location of the hazard changes
B.2.3.5 Management. It is important to ensure that the             (3) Other hazards introduced into the area
systems are designed, installed, commissioned, maintained, and     (4) Ambient environment
tested on regular intervals as indicated in Chapter 14. In addi-   (5) Invalidity of any of the design assumptions

tion, the person conducting the testing and inspections should
be aware of the background of the design and the need to eval-

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-326                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

B.3 Evaluation of Heat Detection System Performance.                                 (4) Ambient temperature (Ta)
B.3.1 General. Section B.3 provides a method for determin-                           (5) Detector operating temperature (Ts) (heat detectors
ing the application spacing for both fixed-temperature heat
detectors (including sprinklers) and rate-of-rise heat detectors.                           only)
This method is valid only for use when detectors are to be                           (6) Rate of temperature change set point for rate-of-rise heat
placed on a large, flat ceiling. It predicts detector response to a
geometrically growing flaming fire at a specific fire size. This                            detectors (Ts/min)
                                                                                     (7) Fuel fire intensity coefficient () or the fire growth time

                                                                                            (tg)

method takes into account the effects of ceiling height, radial                      B.3.2.1.2 Analysis. Data required to determine analysis
distance between the detector and the fire, threshold fire size                      include the following:
[critical heat release rate (QCR)], rate of fire development, and
detector response time index. For fixed-temperature detectors,                       (1) Ceiling height or clearance above fuel (H)
the ambient temperature and the temperature rating of the                            (2) Response time index (RTI) for the detector (heat detec-
detector are also considered. This method also allows for the
adjustment of the application spacing for fixed-temperature                                 tors only) or its listed spacing
heat detectors to account for variations in ambient tempera-                         (3) Actual installed spacing (S) of the existing detectors
                                                                                     (4) Ambient temperature (Ta)
Y ture (Ta) from standard test conditions.                                           (5) Detector operating temperature (Ts) (heat detectors
L B.3.1.1 This method can also be used to estimate the fire size
N at which detection will occur, given an existing array of listed                          only)
                                                                                     (6) Rate of temperature change set point for rate-of-rise heat
heat detectors installed at a known spacing, ceiling height, and
ambient conditions.                                                                         detectors (Ts/min)
                                                                                     (7) Fuel fire intensity coefficient () or the fire growth time
O B.3.1.2 The effect of rate of fire growth and fire size of a flam-
                                                                                            (tg)
ing fire, as well as the effect of ceiling height on the spacing                     B.3.2.2 Ambient Temperature Considerations.
                                                                                     B.3.2.2.1 The maximum ambient temperature expected to
E and response of smoke detectors, can also be determined using                      occur at the ceiling will directly affect the choice of tempera-
S this method.                                                                       ture rating for a fixed-temperature heat detector application.
                                                                                     However, the minimum ambient temperature likely to be
B.3.1.3 The methodology contained herein uses theories of                            present at the ceiling is also very important. When ambient
                                                                                     temperature at the ceiling decreases, more heat from a fire is
U fire development, fire plume dynamics, and detector perform-                       needed to bring the air surrounding the detector's sensing
                                                                                     element up to its rated (operating) temperature. This results in
ance. These are considered the major factors influencing                             slower response when the ambient temperature is lower. In the
                                                                                     case of a fire that is growing over time, lower ambient tempera-
L detector response. This methodology does not address several                       tures result in a larger fire size at the time of detection.
                                                                                     B.3.2.2.2 Therefore, selection of the minimum ambient
lesser phenomena that, in general, are considered unlikely to                        temperature has a significant effect on the calculations. The
                                                                                     designer should decide what temperature to use for these
A have a significant influence. A discussion of ceiling drag, heat                   calculations and document why that temperature was chosen.
                                                                                     Because the response time of a given detector to a given fire is
loss to the ceiling, radiation to the detector from a fire, re-                      dependent only on the detector's time constant and the
                                                                                     temperature difference between ambient and the detector
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U radiation of heat from a detector to its surroundings, and the   rating, the use of the lowest anticipated ambient temperature
                                                                                     for the space results in the most conservative design. For
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} heat of fusion of eutectic materials in fusible elements of heatunheated spaces, a review of historical weather data would be
                                                                                     appropriate. However, such data might show extremely low
ID detectors and their possible limitations on the design method                     temperatures that occur relatively infrequently, such as every
                                                                                     100 years. Depending on actual design considerations, it might
are provided in References 4, 11, 16, and 18 in I.1.2.18.                            be more appropriate to use an average minimum ambient
                                                                                     temperature. In any case, a sensitivity analysis should be
IV B.3.1.4 The methodology in Section B.3 does not address the                       performed to determine the effect of changing the ambient
                                                                                     temperature on the design results.
effects of ceiling projections, such as beams and joists, on
detector response. While it has been shown that these compo-

D nents of a ceiling have a significant effect on the response of

heat detectors, research has not yet resulted in a simplified

IN method for quantifying this effect. The prescriptive adjust-

ments to detector spacing in Chapter 17 should be applied to
application spacings derived from this methodology. Computa-

R tional fluid dynamics (CFD) programs are available and can

assist in analyzing the fire and development and spread of heat

O and smoke, as well as the potential effects of varying ceiling

configurations and characteristics including sloped and

Fbeamed ceilings.
B.3.2 Considerations Regarding Input Data.
                                                                                     B.3.2.2.3 In a room or work area that has central heating, the
 B.3.2.1 Required Data. The data listed in B.3.2.1.1 and                             minimum ambient temperature would usually be about 20°C
B.3.2.1.2 are necessary in order to use the methods in this          (68°F). On the other hand, certain warehouse occupancies
annex for either design or analysis.                                                 might be heated only enough to prevent water pipes from
                                                                     freezing and, in this case, the minimum ambient temperature
B.3.2.1.1 Design. Data required to determine design include          can be considered to be 2°C (35°F), even though, during many
the following:                                                       months of the year, the actual ambient temperature can be

(1) Ceiling height or clearance above fuel (H)                                       much higher.
(2) Threshold fire size at which response must occur (Qd) or
       the time to detector response (td)

(3) Response time index (RTI) for the detector (heat detec-
tors only) or its listed spacing

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 ANNEX B                                                                                        72-327

B.3.2.3 Ceiling Height Considerations.                                                                the manufacturer's data and is determined during the listing
                                                                                                      process.
B.3.2.3.1 A detector ordinarily operates sooner if it is nearer
to the fire. Where ceiling heights exceed 4.9 m (16 ft), ceiling                                      B.3.2.4.2 The difference between the rated temperature of a
height is the dominant factor in the detection system response.                                       fixed-temperature detector (Ts) and the maximum ambient-
B.3.2.3.2 As flaming combustion commences, a buoyant                                                  temperature (Ta) at the ceiling should be as small as possible.
plume forms. The plume is comprised of the heated gases and                                           However, to reduce unwanted alarms, the difference between
smoke rising from the fire. The plume assumes the general                                             operating temperature and the maximum ambient tempera-
shape of an inverted cone. The smoke concentration and                                                ture should be not less than 11°C (20°F). (See Chapter 17.)

temperature within the cone varies inversely as a variable expo-                                      B.3.2.4.3 If using combination detectors incorporating both
nential function of the distance from the source. This effect is
very significant in the early stages of a fire, because the angle of                                  fixed temperature and rate-of-rise heat detection principles to
                                                                                                      detect a geometrically growing fire, the data contained herein
   the cone is wide. As a fire intensifies, the angle of the cone                                     for rate-of-rise detectors should be used in selecting an instal-
   narrows and the significance of the effect of height is lessened.                                  led spacing, because the rate-of-rise principle controls the
   B.3.2.3.3 As the ceiling height increases, a larger-size fire is                                   response. The fixed-temperature set point is determined from
                                                                                                      the maximum anticipated ambient temperature.
Y necessary to actuate the same detector in the same length of                                        B.3.2.5 Time Constant and Response Time Index (RTI). The
L time. In view of this, it is very important that the designer                                       flow of heat from the ceiling jet into a heat detector sensing
                                                                                                      element is not instantaneous. It occurs over a period of time. A
   consider the size of the fire and rate of heat release that might                                  measure of the speed with which heat transfer occurs, the ther-
                                                                                                      mal response coefficient is needed to accurately predict heat
N develop before detection is ultimately obtained.                                                    detector response. This is currently called the detector time
                                                                                                      constant (0). The time constant is a measure of the detector's
 B.3.2.3.4 The procedures presented in B.3.2.3 are based on                                           sensitivity. The sensitivity of a heat detector, 0 or RTI, should
                                                                                                      be determined by validated test. Research by FM Global
O analysis of data for ceiling heights up to 9.1 m (30 ft). No data                                   [43,44,45] has shown that such a correlation exists and has
                                                                                                      resulted in a test method to determine RTI. This test method is
   were analyzed for ceiling heights greater than 9.1 m (30 ft). In                                   documented in FM Approval Standard 3210, Heat Detectors for
                                                                                                      Automatic Fire Alarm Signaling. Heat detectors should be listed
E spaces where the ceiling heights exceed this limit, B.3.2.3 offers                                  with their RTI so that heat detector spacing can be appropri-
                                                                                                      ately determined for various objectives and applications. For
   no guidance. [40]                                                                                  older or existing detectors, given the detector's listed spacing
                                                                                                      and the detector's rated temperature (Ts), Table B.3.2.5, devel-
S B.3.2.3.5 The relationships presented here are based on the                                         oped in part by Heskestad and Delichatsios [10], can be used
U difference between the ceiling height and the height of the                                         to find the detector time constant.
                                                                                                      B.3.2.6 Fire Growth Rate.
   fuel item involved in the fire. It is recommended that the                                         B.3.2.6.1 Fire growth varies depending on the combustion
   designer assume the fire is at floor level and use the actual                                      characteristics and the physical configuration of the fuels
                                                                                                      involved. After ignition, most fires grow in an accelerating
L distance from floor to ceiling for the calculations. This will                                      pattern. Information regarding the fire growth rate for various
                                                                                                      fuels has been provided previously in this annex.
   yield a design that is conservative, and actual detector response

A can be expected to exceed the needed speed of response in

   those cases where the fire begins above floor level.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B.3.2.3.6 Where the designer desires to consider the height of
ID the potential fuel in the room, the distance between the base of

   the fuel and the ceiling should be used in place of the ceiling

IV height. This design option is appropriate only if the minimum

   height of the potential fuel is always constant and the concept
   is approved by the authority having jurisdiction.

D B.3.2.4 Operating Temperature.
IN B.3.2.4.1 The operating temperature, or rate of temperature

   change, of the detector required for response is obtained from
R  Table B.3.2.5 Time Constants (0) for Any Listed Heat Detector [at a reference velocity of 1.5 m/sec (5 ft/sec)]
FOListed Spacing
                                                 Underwriters Laboratories Inc.                                              Factory Mutual

                  53.3°C                57.2°C   62.8°C                                               71.1°C    76.7°C   91.1°C Research Corporation
m      ft         (128°F)               (135°F)  (145°F)                                              (160°F)   (170°F)  (196°F) (All Temperatures)

3.05   10         400                   330      262                                                  195       160      97  196
4.57   15         250                   190      156                                                  110       89       45  110
6.10   20         165                   135      105                                                  70        52       17  70
7.62   25         124                   100      78                                                   48        32       --  48
9.14   30         95                    80       61                                                   36        22       --  36
12.19  40         71                    57       41                                                   18        --       --  --
15.24  50         59                    44       30                                                   --        --       --  --
21.34  70         36                    24       9                                                    --        --       --  --

Notes:
(1) These time constants are based on an analysis [10] of the Underwriters Laboratories Inc. and Factory Mutual listing test procedures.
(2) These time constants can be converted to response time index (RTI) values by using the equation RTI = 0 (5.0 ft/sec)1/2. (See also B.3.3.)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.              2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-328                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

B.3.2.6.2 If the heat release history for a particular fire is     B.3.3.3.1 Because detection typically occurs during the initial
known, the  or tg can be calculated using curve fitting techni-    stages of a fire, the radiant heat transfer component (Qrad) can
ques for implementation into the method detailed herein. [16]      be considered negligible. In addition, because the heat-sensing
B.3.2.6.3 In most cases, the exact fuel(s) and growth rates will   elements of most of the heat detectors are thermally isolated
not be known. Engineering judgment should therefore be used        from the rest of the detection unit, as well as from the ceiling,
to select  or tg that is expected to approximate the fire. Sensi-  it can be assumed that the conductive portion of the heat
tivity analysis should also be performed to determine the effect   release rate (Qcond) is also negligible, especially when compared
on response from changes in the expected fire growth rate. In      to the convective heat transfer rate. Because the majority of the
some analyses the effect on response will be negligible. Other     heat transfer to the detection element is via convection, the
cases might show that a more thorough analysis of potential        following equation can be used to calculate the total heat trans-
fuels and fire scenarios is necessary.                             fer:

 B.3.2.7 Threshold Fire Size. The user should refer to B.2.3.1                                                             [B.3.3.3.1]
   and B.2.3.2regarding discussions on determining threshold fire
                                                                           Q = Qconv = Hc A Tg -Td
  ( ) sizes (QDO and QCR) to meet the design objectives.
                                                                   where:
Y B.3.3 Heat Detector Spacing.                                     Qconv = convective heat transfer (kW or Btu/sec)
L B.3.3.1 Fixed-Temperature Heat Detector Spacing. The             Hc  =   convective heat transfer coefficient  for  the  detector
N following method can be used to determine the response of                (kW/m2·°C or Btu/ft2·sec·°F)
                                                                   A = surface area of the detector's element (m2 or ft2)
   fixed-temperature heat detectors for designing or analyzing
                                                                   Tg = temperature of fire gases at the detector (°C or °F)
O heat detection systems.                                          Td = temperature rating, or set point, of the detector (°C or

   B.3.3.1.1 The objective of designing a detection system is to         °F)

E determine the spacing of detectors required to respond to a      B.3.3.3.2 Assuming the detection element can be treated as a
                                                                   lumped mass (m) (kg or lbm), its temperature change can be
   given set of conditions and goals. To achieve the objectives,   defined as follows:

S detector response must occur when the fire reaches a critical                                                            [B.3.3.3.2]

   heat release rate, or in a specified time.                                            dT Q
                                                                                              d
U B.3.3.1.2 When analyzing an existing detection system, the                                  =
                                                                                         dt mc
   designer is looking to determine the size of the fire at the time

L that the detector responds.
A B.3.3.2 Theoretical Background. [26, 28] The design and

   analysis methods contained in Annex B are the joint result of

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U extensive experimental work and of mathematical modeling of

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} the heat and mass transfer processes involved. The original

ID method was developed by Heskestad and Delichatsios [9, 10],

   Beyler [4], and Schifiliti [16]. It was recently updated by
   Marrion [28] to reflect changes in the original correlations as

IV discussed in work by Heskestad and Delichatsios [11] and

   Marrion [27]. Additional research has been conducted by FM

D Global [43, 44, 45]. Paragraph B.3.3.2 outlines methods and

   data correlations used to model the heat transfer to a heat

IN detector, as well as velocity and temperature correlations for

   growing fires at the location of the detector. Only the general
   principles are described here. More detailed information is
   available in References 4, 9, 10, 16, and 28 in I.1.2.18.

R B.3.3.3 Heat Detector Correlations. The heat transfer to a
FO ( ) detector can be described by the following equation:
                                                                   where:
                                                                   dTd/dt = change in temperature of detection element

                                                                               (deg/sec)
                                                                        Q = heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
                                                                        m = detector element's mass (kg or lbm)
                                                                         c = detector element's specific heat (kJ/kg·°C or Btu/

                                                                               lbm·°F)
                                                                   B.3.3.3.3 By inserting Equation B.3.3.3.2 into Equation
                                                                   B.3.3.3.1, the change in temperature of the detection element
                                                                   over time is expressed in Equation B.3.3.3.3.

                                                                                                                           [B.3.3.3.3]

                                                                           dTd = Hc A Tg -Td

                                             [B.3.3.3]                               dt  mc

              Qtotal = Qcond + Qconv + Qrad                        Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.

where:
Qtotal = total heat transfer to a detector (kW or Btu/sec)
Qcond = conductive heat transfer
Qconv = convective heat transfer
 Qrad = radiative heat transfer

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                               ANNEX B                                                                                                             72-329

B.3.3.3.4 The use of a time constant () was proposed by             B.3.3.3.9 It has become customary to refer to the time
Heskestad and Smith [8] in order to define the convective heat      constant using a reference velocity of u0 = 1.5 m/sec (5 ft/sec).
transfer to a specific detector's heat-sensing element. This time   For example, where u0 = 1.5 m/sec (5 ft/sec), a 0 of
constant is a function of the mass, specific heat, convective heat  30 seconds corresponds to an RTI of 36 sec12/m12 (or 67 sec12/
transfer coefficient, and area of the element and can be            ft12). On the other hand, a detector that has an RTI of
expressed as follows:                                               36 sec12/m12 (or 67 sec12/ft12) would have a 0 of 23.7 seconds, if

                                               [B.3.3.3.4]          measured in an air velocity of 2.4 m/sec (8 ft/sec).

                            = mc                                    B.3.3.3.10 The following equation can therefore be used to
                                                                    calculate the heat transfer to the detection element and thus
                           HA                                       determine its temperature from its local fire-induced environ-
                               c

                                                                    ment:
where:
m = detector element's mass (kg or lbm)                                                                                                                      [B.3.3.3.10]
 c = detector element's specific heat (kJ/kg·°C or Btu/lbm ·
                                                                                                       dTd = u1/2 Tg -Td
 ( ) Y °F)
                                                                                                       dt                RTI
Hc = convective heat transfer coefficient for the detector

 L (kW/m2·°C or Btu/ft2·sec·°F)

 A = surface area of the detector's element (m2 or ft2)

N  = detector time constant (seconds)
O B.3.3.3.5 As seen in the equation B.3.3.3.4,  is a measure of

the detector's sensitivity. By increasing the mass of the detec-
tion element, the time constant, and thus the response time,

E increases.
S B.3.3.3.6 Substituting into equation B.3.3.3.3 produces the

following:
                                                                       Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.
                                                                    B.3.3.4 Temperature and Velocity Correlations. [26, 28] In
                                                                    order to predict the operation of any detector, it is necessary to
                                                                    characterize the local environment created by the fire at the
                                                                    location of the detector. For a heat detector, the important vari-
                                                                    ables are the temperature and velocity of the gases at the detec-
                                                                    tor. Through a program of full-scale tests and the use of
                                                                    mathematical modeling techniques, general expressions for
                                                                    temperature and velocity at a detector location have been
                                                                    developed by Heskestad and Delichatsios (refer to references 4, 9,
                                                                    10, and 16 in I.1.2.18). These expressions are valid for fires that
                                                                    grow according to the following power law relationship:
L U dTd = Tg -Td
A dt
                                               [B.3.3.3.6]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B.3.3.3.7 Research has shown [24] that the convective heat
                                                                                                                                                                   [B.3.3.4]
  transfer coefficient for sprinklers and heat detection elements
  is similar to that of spheres, cylinders, and so forth, and is thus                                      Q = t p

IV approximately proportional to the square root of the velocity of

  the gases passing the detector. As the mass, thermal capacity,
  and area of the detection element remain constant, the follow-

D ing relationship can be expressed as the response time index

  (RTI) for an individual detector:
   R INu1/2 0u01/2 = RTI                                            where:
Owhere:                                        [B.3.3.3.7]          Q = theoretical convective fire heat release rate (kW or

       = detector time constant (seconds)                                 Btu/sec)
                                                                     = fire growth rate (kW/sec2 or Btu/sec3)
Fu = velocity of fire gases (m/sec or ft/sec)                        t = time (seconds)
                                                                    p = positive exponent

                                                                       Several other ceiling jet correlations [41] have been devel-
                                                                    oped over the years that the designer should also review as to
                                                                    their applicability to the particular design case. Sensitivity anal-
                                                                    yses should also be conducted with the analysis.

                                                                    B.3.3.4.1 Relationships have been developed by Heskestad
                                                                    and Delichatsios [9] for temperature and velocity of fire gases
                                                                    in a ceiling jet. These have been expressed as follows [26]:

u0 = instantaneous velocity of fire gases (m/sec or ft/sec)
RTI = response time index
                                                                                                                                                             [B.3.3.4.1a]

B.3.3.3.8 If 0 is measured at a given reference velocity (u0),             U  *  =                  u                               =    f        *  ,  r  
can be determined for any other gas velocity (u) for that detec-              p       A1/(3+ p )u1/(3+ p )H (p -1) /(3+ p )                    t  p     H  
tor. A plunge test is the easiest way to measure 0. It has also
been related to the listed spacing of a detector through a calcu-                                                                                            [B.3.3.4.1b]
lation. Table B.3.2.5 presents results from these calculations
[10]. The RTI value can then be obtained by multiplying 0           T *      =   g    t  *  ,  r    =                            T
values by u012.                                                           p              p     H  
                                                                                                                         T     
                                                                                                       A2  /(3+  p  )       a    2  /(3  +  p  )H  -(5- p)/(3+ p)

                                                                                                                       g 

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-330                                                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

where:

                                                                                  [B.3.3.4.1c]                                                                              [B.3.3.4.3.b]

                      t*  =                 t                                                              ( ) ( ) dT         4      T                   1/4
                       p       A-1/(3+p )-1/(3+p)H 4 /(3+p)                                                     d             3      T *      
                                                                                                                (t   )                          T *           1- e -Y
                                                                                                                                           2          2

                                                                                                                        =                     t 

and                                                                                                           dt                                    
                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                t*    D
                                                                                                                                                 2

                                                                               [B.3.3.4.1d]     where:

                                       A= g
                                       CT
                                                                        pa 0                                                                                                   [B.3.3.4.3c]

   Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.                                                  =    3       u     1/2  u *          1/2  T *  t                 
                                                                                                        Y       4       u*                  2                    2          D
Y B.3.3.4.2 Using the correlations in B.3.3.4.1, Heskestad and                                                                                                          t*  
L Delichatsios [9], and with later updates from another paper by                                                           2         T *1/2                RTI           2
                                                                                                                                           2
Heskestad [11], the following correlations were presented for
                                                                                                and
N fires that had heat release rates that grew according to the

power law equation, with p = 2. As previously discussed [10, 18],

O the p = 2 power law fire growth model can be used to model

the heat release rate of a wide range of fuels. These fires are
therefore referred to as t-squared fires.
                               USE t*                                                                                                                                       [B.3.3.4.3d]
                                2f
                                                                                                                        D = 0.146 + 0.242r /H

                                                                                  [B.3.3.4.2a]         Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.
                                                                                                   B.3.3.4.4 The steps involved in solving these equations for
AL                                  =                1  +  r                                       either a design or analysis situation are presented in Figure
                                       0.861               H                                       B.3.3.4.4 [28].
                                                                                                   B.3.3.5 Limitations. [26]
                                                                                                 B.3.3.5.1 If velocity and temperature of the fire gases flowing
                                                                                                   past a detector cannot be accurately determined, errors will be
                                                                                                   introduced when calculating the response of a detector. The
                                                                                                   graphs presented by Heskestad and Delichatsios indicate the
                                                                                                   errors in the calculated fire­gas temperatures and velocities
                                                                                                   [10]. A detailed analysis of these errors is beyond the scope of
                                                                                                   this annex; however, some discussion is warranted. In using the
                                                                                                   method presented in B.3.3.2, the user should be aware of the
                                                                                                   limitations of these correlations, as outlined in Reference 26.
                                                                                                   The designer should also refer back to the original reports.

                                                                                                       Graphs of actual and calculated data show that errors in T2*
                                                                                                   can be as high as 50 percent, although generally there appears
                                                                                                   to be much better agreement. The maximum errors occur at
                                                                                                   r/H values of about 0.37. All other plots of actual and calcula-
                                                                                                   ted data, for various r/H, show much smaller errors. In terms of
                                                                                                   the actual change in temperature over ambient, the maximum
                                                                                                   errors are on the order of 5°C to 10°C (9°F to 18°F). The
                                                                                                   larger errors occur with faster fires and lower ceilings.

                                                                                                       At r/H = 0.37, the errors are conservative when the equations
                                                                                                   are used in a design problem. That is, the equations predicted
                                                                                                   lower temperatures. Plots of data for other values of r/H indi-
                                                                                                   cate that the equations predict slightly higher temperatures.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} [B.3.3.4.2c]                            [B.3.3.4.2b]

                      T *           =  0           for     t*  <  t*
                           2                                2      2f

        IV T*                  t* -t*                      4 /3
             2
              =           IND ( )u*2 2f            /H             for  t*    t*
                                   2                                    2     2f
                  0.146    T * + 0.242r

                                                                               [B.3.3.4.2d]

 R Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.1/2=r -0.63
O  B.3.3.4.3 Work by Beyler [4] determined that the temperature0.59 H
Fand velocity correlations in B.3.3.4.2 could be substituted into2

   the heat transfer equation for the detector and integrated. His
   analytical solution is as follows:

                                                                                  [B.3.3.4.3a]     Errors in fire­gas velocities are related to errors in tempera-
                                                                                                tures. The equations show that the velocity of the fire gases is
              ( ) T                                           1-                                proportional to the square root of the change in temperatures
                d                                                                               of the fire gases. In terms of heat transfer to a detector, the
              (t   )  -T       (0)  =     T          T *          1- e -Y                       detector's change in temperature is proportional to the change
                            d             T *              2      Y                             in gas temperature and the square root of the fire­gas velocity.
                                                                                                Hence, the expected errors bear the same relationships.
                                                2

2019 Edition                              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                                                  ANNEX B                                                                                               72-331

                                                Fire Detection Design and Analysis Worksheet [28]
                                                                        Design Example

1. Determine ambient temperature (Ta) ceiling height Ta =                                                                                  °C + 273 =                            K

    or height above fuel (H).                                                                     H=                                       m

2. Determine the fire growth characteristic ( or tg) for                                          =                                        kW/sec2                     K RTI =             m1/2 sec1/2
        the expected design fire.                                                                 tg =                                     sec
                                                                                                  Ts =                                     °C + 273 =
3a. Define the characteristics of the detectors.

                                                                                                  dTd =                                    °C/min 0 =                                      sec

                                                                                                  dt

  3b. Design -- Establish system goals (tCR or QCR) and                                           tCR =                                    sec r =                                   m

    make a first estimate of the distance (r) from the fire QCR =
    Y detectors and make a first estimate of the response Q =                                                                              kW

or to the detector.
    L time or the fire size at detector response (Q = t2).
  3b. Analysis -- Determine spacing of existing                                                   r=                                       *1.41 =                               = S (m)
                                                                                                                                           kW td =                                    sec
( N 4.
    ( ) Using equation B.3.3.4.2a, calculate the non-t*                                           t* = 0.861   O g1        +   r  (
                                        2                                                          2                          H
    dimensional time                        at which the initial heat front
                                                                                                  t* =
    reaches the detector.
    E A in equation B.3.3.4.1d.                                                                   2

  5. Calculate the factor A defined by the relationship for A =
US 6.                                                                                                          Cp Ta 0

                                                                                                  A=

    Use the required response time (tCR) along with the                                           t* =                        tCR

    relationship         for     t  *  in  equation   B.3.3.4.1c       and  p        =     2  to  2 A­1/(3 + p) ­1/(3 + p) H 4/(3 + p)
    L detector position (r) and return to step 4.p                                                t* =

    calculate         the     corresponding          value  of  t*  .                             2
                                                                 2

7.A 8.Ift*  >   t  *  ,  continue      to   step  8. If   not, try     a  new
         2         2

{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 9.Calculatetheratiouusingtherelationshipfor      Up*    u                                                                              u
                                       u2*                                                        u*     = A 1 /(3 + p)  1 /(3 + p) H ( p ­ 1) / (3 + p)                         u*  =

    in equation B.3.3.4.1a.                                                                           2                                                                          2

    Calculate the ratio T using the relationship for                                              T                                                                              T
IV [ 10.                               T    *                                                     T *          = A 2 /(3 + p) (Ta/g)  2 /(3 + p) H ­ (5 ­ p) / (3 + p)           T * =
        *                                   2
    T   p   in  equation         B.3.3.4.1b.                                                                                                                                           2
                                                                                                         2

    Use     the    relationship            for  T  *  in  equation     B.3.3.4.2c             to                           t  *  ­   t  *         4 /3
D 11.                                              2                                                                          2         2
                                                                                                  T      *  =                                                                    T   *  =
    calculate         T  *    .                                                                          2                                     [                                     2
                         2                                                                                     (0.146 + 0.242 r/ H)
    IN ( equation
                                                  u*
    Use the relationship for 2 in                                                                                                                                                   u*
                                        (T * )1/ 2                        u*                          u*                          r ­ 0.63                                                2
                                                  2                                                     2 = 0.59                 H                                                           =
                                                                                  2
                      B.3.3.4.2d       to   calculate     the  ratio                 )1/2  .      (T * )1/ 2                         (                                          (T * )1/ 2
                                                                          (T *                                                                                                          2
                                                                                  2
  12. Use the relationships for Y and D in equations                                                        2

   R ( ( [ ( ( B.3.3.4.3c and B.3.3.4.3d to calculate Y.                                                 3     u 1/2                    u* 1/2    T *       t                    Y=
                                                                                                  Y= 4                                     2             2  t* D
     13. Fixed Temperature HD -- Use the relationship for
                                                                                                               u*                (T *)1/ 2        RTI         2
 O ( [ Td(t) ­ Td(0) in equation B.3.3.4.3a to calculate the                                                      2                      2
F resulting temperature of the detector Td(t).                                                                 (( [ ((

                                                                                                  Td (t) =     T         (  T *         1­ (1­ e ­Y)    [  + Td(0)               Td (t) =
                                                                                                               T *                2            Y
                                                                                                                        2

14. Rate of Rise HD -- Use the relationship for dTd(t)                                            [( ( dTd =   4        T            (T * )1/4 (1­ e ­Y )              dt        dTd =
                                                                                                               3        T *               2 [(t / t * ) D]
                                                                                     dt
                                                                                                                              2                                  2
    in equation B.3.3.4.3b.                                                                                       ((                                                [

15.                                                                                                                                  Repeat Procedure Using
        If:
                                                                                                  Design                                                               Analysis
        1. Td > Ts                                                                                1. a larger r
        2. Td < Ts                                                                                2. a smaller r                                                       1. a larger tr
        3. Td = T                                                                                 3. s = 1.41 × r =
                                                                                                                                                                       2. a smaller tr

                                                                                                                                               m                       3. tr =             sec

FIGURE B.3.3.4.4 Fire Detection Design and Analysis Worksheet. [28]

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                                                                         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-332                    NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

   Based on the discussion in this section, errors in predicted        B.3.3.6.6.2 Using the power law growth equation with p = 2,
temperatures and velocities of fire gases will be greatest for fast    the time after open flaming until the fire grows to 10,000 kW
fires and low ceilings. Sample calculations simulating these           (9478 Btu/sec) can be calculated as follows:
conditions show errors in calculated detector spacings on the
order of plus or minus one meter, or less.                                          Q  =     1055        2   =  t 2                    [B.3.3.6.6.2a]
B.3.3.5.2 The procedures presented in this annex are based                                    t2      t  DO
on an analysis of test data for ceiling heights up to 9.1 m                                                          (for SI units)
(30 ft). No data were analyzed for ceilings greater than 9.1 m                                   c
(30 ft). The reader should refer to Reference 40 for additional
insight.                                                               or

B.3.3.6 Design Examples.                                                                                                      [B.3.3.6.6.2b]

B.3.3.6.1 Define Project Scope. A fire detection system is to              Q     =    1000     t  2   =  t 2    (for inch-pound units)
be designed for installation in an unsprinklered warehouse                             t2         DO
building. The building has a large, flat ceiling that is approxi-                            
                                                                                          c
Y mately 4 m (13.1 ft) high. The ambient temperature inside is
L normally 10°C (50°F). The municipal fire service has indicated                                  t      =  461  seconds
                                                                                                   DO
that it can begin putting water on the fire within 5.25 minutes
                                                                          Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.
N of receiving the alarm.                                              B.3.3.6.6.3 The critical heat release rate and time to detection
                                                                       can therefore be calculated as follows, assuming trespond equals
B.3.3.6.2 Identify Goals. Provide protection of property.              the 5.25 minutes necessary for the fire brigade to respond to
                                                                       the alarm and begin discharging water:
O B.3.3.6.3 Define Stakeholder's Objective. No fire spread from
                                                                                                                              [B.3.3.6.6.3a]
initial fuel package.
                                                                                               t =t -t
E B.3.3.6.4 Define Design Objective. Prevent radiant ignition of
S adjacent fuel package.                                                                              CR DO respond
U B.3.3.6.5 Develop Performance Criteria. After discussions
                                                                                       t = 461- 315 = 146 seconds
with the plant fire brigade with regard to their capability and
                                                                                        CR
L analyzing the radiant energy levels necessary to ignite adjacent
                                                                       and thus
fuel packages, it was determined that the fire should be detec-
                                                                                                                              [B.3.3.6.6.3b]
A ted and suppression activities started prior to its reaching
                                                                                                         Q = t 2
10,000 kW (9478 Btu/sec).                                                                                   CR       CR

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U B.3.3.6.6 Develop Fire Scenarios and the Design Fire. Evalua-

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tion of the potential contents to be warehoused identified the

ID areas where wood pallets are stored to be one of the highest

fire hazards.

IV B.3.3.6.6.1 The fire scenario involving the ignition of a stack

of wood pallets will therefore be evaluated. The pallets are

D stored 0.5 m (1.5 ft) high. Fire test data [see Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a)]

indicate that this type of fire follows the t2 power law equation

IN with a tg equal to approximately 150 to 310 seconds. To be

conservative, the faster fire growth rate will be used. Thus,
using Equation B.3.3.4,
 ORQ =tp                                                                                 QCR = 1000 kW (948 Btu/sec)
F ( ) 1055 kW =  kW/sec2 (150 sec)2                    [B.3.3.6.6.1a]
                                                                          Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.
                           = 0.047 kW/sec2                             B.3.3.7 Develop Candidate Designs.
                                                                       B.3.3.7.1 Fixed-temperature heat detectors have been selected
                                                                       for installation in the warehouse with a 57°C (135°F) operating
                                                                       temperature and a UL-listed spacing of 9.1 m (30 ft). From
                                                                       Table B.3.2.5, the time constant is determined to be 80 seconds
                                                                       when referenced to a gas velocity of 1.5 m/sec (5 ft/sec). When
                                                                       used with Equation B.3.3.3.7, the detector's RTI can be calcula-
                                                                       ted as follows:

or                                                                                                                            [B.3.3.7.1a]

                                                       [B.3.3.6.6.1b]                                 RTI =  u1/2
                                                                                                                          00
              Q = t p
                                                                                                  RTI = 98 m1/2 sec1/2

              ( ) 1000 Btu/sec =  Btu/sec3 (150 sec)2                  or

                             = 0.044 Btu/sec3

Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.                                                                        [B.3.3.7.1b]

                                                                                                  RTI = 179 ft1/2 sec1/2

2019 Edition              Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    ANNEX B                                                                     72-333

B.3.3.7.2 To begin calculations, it will be necessary to make a     B.3.3.8.3.3 Next, the response time of the detector or the fire
first guess at the required detector spacing. For this example, a   size at response is estimated. In the preceding design, the fire
first estimate of 4.7 m (15.3 ft) is used. This correlates to a     grew to 1000 kW (948 Btu/sec) in 146 seconds when the detec-
radial distance of 3.3 m (10.8 ft).                                 tor located at a distance of 3.3 m (10.8 ft) responded. As the
                                                                    radial distance in this example is larger, a slower response time
B.3.3.8 Evaluate Candidate Designs. These values can then be        and thus a larger fire size at response is expected. A first
entered into the design and analysis worksheet shown in Figure      approximation at the response time is made at 3 minutes. The
B.3.3.8 in order to evaluate the candidate design.                  corresponding fire size is found using the power law fire

B.3.3.8.1 After 146 seconds, when the fire has grown to             growth equation B.3.3.4 with p = 2 and  from B.3.3.6.6.1:

1000 kW (948 Btu/sec) and at a radial distance of 3.3 m
(10.8 ft) from the center of the fire, the detector temperature
is calculated to be 57°C (135°F). This is the detector actuation                                                                [B.3.3.8.3.3a]
temperature. If the calculated temperature of the detector
were higher than the actuation temperature, the radial              Q = t p
distance could be increased. The calculation would then be
                                                                    0.047 kW /sec2                               (180  sec   2
Y repeated until the calculated detector temperature is approxi-
                                                                                                                            )
mately equal to the actuation temperature.

L B.3.3.8.2 The last step is to use the final calculated value of r
N with the equation relating spacing to radial distance. This will

determine the maximum installed detector spacing that will

O result in detector response within the established goals.
                                                                    ( ) Q =

                                                                                                  Q = 1523 kW
                                                                    or

    E S = 21/2r                                                                                                                 [B.3.3.8.3.3b]
      US S = 4.7 m (15.3 ft)
                                                                    0.044 Btu/sec3                               (180  sec   2
  where:                                            [B.3.3.8.2]     ( ) Q =
                                                                                                                            )
L S = spacing of detectors
A r = radial distance from fire plume axis (m or ft)

  B.3.3.8.3 The following example of analysis is provided.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B.3.3.8.3.1 The following example shows how an existing heat
ID detection system or a proposed design can be analyzed to

  determine the response time or fire size at response. The
  scenario that was analyzed in the previous example will be used

IV again, with the exception that the warehouse building has exist-

  ing heat detectors. The fire, building, and detectors have the
  same characteristics as the previous example with the excep-

D tion of spacing. The detectors are spaced evenly on the ceiling

  at 9.1 m (30 ft) intervals.

IN B.3.3.8.3.2 The following equation is used to determine the

  maximum radial distance from the fire axis to a detector:
FOR S =1.414r                                                                                     Q = 1426 Btu/sec
                                                    [B.3.3.8.3.2a]
                                                                    B.3.3.8.3.4 These data can be incorporated into the fire detec-
or                                                                  tion design and analysis worksheet shown in Figure B.3.3.8.3.4
                                                                    in order to carry out the remainder of the calculations.
                                                                    B.3.3.8.3.5 Using a radial distance of 6.5 m (21 ft) from the
                                                                    axis of this fire, the temperature of the detector is calculated to
                                                                    be 41°C (106°F) after 3 minutes of exposure. The detector
                                                                    actuation temperature is 57°C (135°F). Thus, the detector
                                                                    response time is more than the estimated 3 minutes. If the
                                                                    calculated temperature were more than the actuation tempera-
                                                                    ture, then a smaller t would be used. As in the previous exam-
                                                                    ple, calculations should be repeated varying the time to
                                                                    response until the calculated detector temperature is approxi-
                                                                    mately equal to the actuation temperature. For this example,
                                                                    the response time is estimated to be 213 seconds. This corre-
                                                                    sponds to a fire size at response of 2132 kW (2022 Btu/sec).
                                                                    B.3.3.8.4 The preceding examples assume that the fire contin-
                                                                    ues to follow the t-squared fire growth relationship up to detec-
                                                                    tor activation. These calculations do not check whether this will
                                                                    happen, nor do they show how the detector temperature varies
                                                                    once the fire stops following the power law relationship. The
                                                                    user should therefore determine that there will be sufficient
                                                                    fuel, since the preceding correlations do not perform this anal-
                                                                    ysis. If there is not a sufficient amount of fuel, then there is the
                                                                    possibility that the heat release rate curve will flatten out or
                                                                    decline before the heat release rate needed for actuation is
                                                    [B.3.3.8.3.2b]  reached.

    S
    r = 1.414
                                                                    B.3.3.8.5 Table B.3.3.8.5(a) through Table B.3.3.8.5(k)
                                                                    provide a comparison of heat release rates, response times, and
                                                                    spacings when variables characteristic of the fires, detectors,
    r = 6.5 m (21.2 ft )                                            and room are changed from the analysis example.

where:
S = spacing of detectors
r = radial distance from fire plume axis (m or ft)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-334                                                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                   Fire Detection Design and Analysis Worksheet [28]

                                                                                  Design Example

1. Determine ambient temperature (Ta) ceiling height Ta =                                                                   10                    °C + 273 = 283                  K

        or height above fuel (H).                                                                         H=                4                     m

2. Determine the fire growth characteristic ( or tg) for  = 0.047                                                                                 kW/sec2
                                                                                                                                                  sec
        the expected design fire.                                                                         tg =           150

3a. Define the characteristics of the detectors.                                                          Ts = 57                                 °C + 273 = 330 K RTI = 98 m1/2sec1/2

                                                                                                          dTd    =                                °C/min 0 =                               sec
                                                                                                          dt

3b. Design -- Establish system goals (tCR or QCR) and                                                     tCR =             146                   sec r =               3.3          m

       make a first estimate of the distance (r) from the fire QCR = 1000 kW
or to the detector.
        Y detectors and make a first estimate of the response Q =
        L time or the fire size at detector response (Q = t2).                                            r=                                                                      = S (m)
3b. Analysis -- Determine spacing of existing                                                                                                     *1.41 =                              sec
                                                                                                                                                  kW td =
( N 4.
O 5.                                                                                                      t* = 0.861                  r
        ( ) Using equation B.3.3.4.2a, calculate the non-t*                                                2                   1  +  H
                                2
        dimensional time                           at which the initial heat front                        t* = 1.57                      (
                                                                                                           2
        reaches the detector.                                                                             E A = 0.030

        Calculate the factor A defined by the relationship for A =                                                       g

US 6.                                                                                                               Cp Ta 0
        A in equation B.3.3.4.1d.

        Use the required response time (tCR) along with the                                               t* =                       tCR

        relationship  for  t*  in              equation   B.3.3.4.1c        and   p     =        2  to    2 A­1/(3 + p) ­1/(3 + p) H 4/(3 + p)

                            p
L 7.                                                                 t*                                   t* =
        calculate  the  corresponding                     value  of   2  .                                 2       12.98

A 8.                                           to step 8. If
        dIfette2*c>totr2*p,ocsointitoinnu(re)  and return     not, try a    new
                                                              to step 4.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 9.Calculatetheratiouusingtherelationshipfor            U  *     u                                                                       u = 0.356
                               u*2                                                                  p     u*     = A 1 /(3 + p)  1 /(3 + p) H ( p ­ 1) / (3 + p)
                                                                                                                                                                                  u*
        in equation B.3.3.4.1a.                                                                           2                                                                          2

        Calculate  the  ratio                  T   using  the  relationship          for         T     *  T                                                                       T
                                                                                                       p  T *
IV [ 10.                       T               *                                                                    = A 2 /(3 + p) (Ta/g)  2 /(3 + p) H ­ (5 ­ p) / (3 + p)       T * = 0.913
                                               2                                                                                                                                        2

        in equation B.3.3.4.1b.                                                                                 2

        Use the relationship for T * in equation B.3.3.4.2c toDu*                                                                 t  *  ­   t  *        4 /3
                                                                   2                                                                 2         2
                                                                                                          T   *    =                                                              T  *  =  105.89
        calculate T * .                                                                                       2                                      [                               2
                                   2                                                                                     (0.146 + 0.242r/ H )
        IN ( equation
11.     Use the relationship for 2 in                                                                         u*         = 0.59 r ­ 0.63                                             u*
                                            (T * )1/ 2                                                           2
                                                   2                           u*                                                                                                     2 = 0.66
                                                                     ratio 2                                                                  (                                  (T * )1/ 2
                   B.3.3.4.2d                  to  calculate   the                                        (T * )1/ 2                     H
12. Use the relationships for Y and D in equations                          (  T     )  1  /  2  .                                                                                       2
                                                                                  *                              2
 R ( ( [ ( ( B.3.3.4.3c and B.3.3.4.3d to calculate Y.                            2                                                                                                Y = 1.533

                                                                                                                              1/2              u* 1/2      T *       t
                                                                                                                                                  2              2       D
                                                                                                                         u
O 13. Fixed Temperature HD -- Use the relationship for                                                    Y=          3  u*                                RTI       t*
        Td(t) ­ Td(0) in equation B.3.3.4.3a to calculate                                                             4  (( [ ((2                                      2
                                                                                                                                        (T * )1/ 2
F ( [ the resulting temperature of the detector Td(t).                                                                                          2

                                                                                                          Td (t) =       T        (  T *         1­ (1­ e ­Y)  [  + Td(0)         Td (t) = 57.25
                                                                                                                         T *               2            Y

                                                                                                                               2

14. Rate of Rise HD -- Use the relationship for dTd(t)                                                    [( ( dTd =     4      T (T * )1/4 (1­ e ­Y ) dt                         dTd =
                                                                                     dt                                  3
                                                                                                                               T *                2 [(t / t * ) D]
        in equation B.3.3.4.3b.                                                                                             ((       2                            2  [

15.                                                                                                                                         Repeat Procedure Using
        If:
                                                                                                          Design                                                        Analysis
        1. Td > Ts
        2. Td < Ts                                                                                        1. a larger r                                                 1. a larger tr
        3. Td = T
                                                                                                          2. a smaller r                                                2. a smaller tr

                                                                                                          3. s = 1.41 × r = 4.7 m                                       3. tr =            sec

FIGURE B.3.3.8 Fire Detection Design and Analysis Worksheet [28] -- Design Example.

2019 Edition                                       Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                                                         ANNEX B                                                                                            72-335

                                                 Fire Detection Design and Analysis Worksheet [28]
                                                                        Design Analysis 2

1. Determine ambient temperature (Ta) ceiling height Ta =                                                                 10                    °C + 273 =                283         K

    or height above fuel (H).                                                                            H=               4                     m

2. Determine the fire growth characteristic ( or tg) for  =                                                            0.047                    kW/sec2
                                                                                                                        150                     sec
    the expected design fire.                                                                            tg =            57
                                                                                                                                                °C + 273 = 330 K
3a. Define the characteristics of the detectors.                                                         Ts =                                                                  RTI =     98 m1/2sec1/2
                                                                                                         dTd =
                                                                                                         dt                                        °C/min 0 =                                   sec

3b. Design -- Establish system goals (tCR or QCR) and                                                    tCR =                                  sec r =                                  m

        make a first estimate of the distance (r) from the fire QCR =
or to the detector.
    Y detectors and make a first estimate of the response Q = 1,523                                                                             kW

    L time or the fire size at detector response (Q = t2).                                                             6.5                                         9.2
3b. Analysis -- Determine spacing of existing                                                            r=                                     *1.41 =                               = S (m)
                                                                                                                                                                                           sec
                                                                                                                                                kW td =                       180
( N 4.
      ( ) Using equation B.3.3.4.2a, calculate the non-t*                                                t* = 0.861    O g1     +   r
                                         2                                                                2                        H
      dimensional time                         at which the initial heat front                                                         (

      reaches the detector.                                                                              t* = 2.26
E 5.                                                                                                     2

    Calculate the factor A defined by the relationship for A =
US 6.                                                                                                              Cp Ta 0
    A in equation B.3.3.4.1d.
                                                                                                         A = 0.030

    Use the required response time (tCR) along with the                                                  t* =                      tCR

    relationship    for           t  *  in  equation           B.3.3.4.1c          and  p  =      2  to  2 A­1/(3 + p) ­1/(3 + p) H 4/(3 + p)
      L detector position (r) and return to step 4.p
                                                                          t  *                           t* =
      calculate  the  corresponding                     value         of     2  .                         2        16

A 8.
7.  If  t*  >  t* , continue            to     step  8.    If     not, try         a  new
         2      2

{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 9.Calculatetheratiouusingtherelationship      for       U*p    u                                                                          u = 0.356
                                                                                                         u*
                                        u   *                                                                   = A 1 /(3 + p)  1 /(3 + p) H ( p ­ 1) / (3 + p)                     u*
                                            2                                                                                                                                          2
    in equation B.3.3.4.1a.
                                                                                                         2

      Calculate the ratio T using the relationship for Tp*                                               T                                                                          T = 0.913
      in equation B.3.3.4.1Tb.*2                                                                         T *
IV [ 10.                                                                                                           = A 2 /(3 + p) (Ta/g)  2 /(3 + p) H ­ (5 ­ p) / (3 + p)          T *

                                                                                                                2                                                                        2

D 11.Use    the                             for      *     in     equation                           to                         t*   ­    t  *         4 /3
                 relationship                    T   2                             B.3.3.4.2c                                     2          2
                                                                                                         T   *  =                                                                   T *
    calculate T * .                                                                                          2                            (                                               2  =  75.01
                               2                                                                                   (0.146 + 0.242r/ H )
                                  IN ( (T                                                                                                    [
      Use the relationship for                       u*           in                                         u*        = 0.59 r ­ 0.63                                              u*
                                                        2                                                       2                                                                            2

                                                     *  )1  /  2                                         (T * )1/ 2                   H                                            (T * )1/ 2   =    0.435
                                                     2
                                                                                      u*
      equation B.3.3.4.2d to calculate the ratio 2 .
12. Use the relationships for Y and D in equations                                                              2                                                                     2

 R ( ( [ ( ( B.3.3.4.3c and B.3.3.4.3d to calculate Y.                                (T * )1/ 2
                                                                                              2

O13. Fixed Temperature HD -- Use the relationship for                                                           3      u 1/2                 u* 1/2 T *            t
              Td(t) ­ Td(0) in equation B.3.3.4.3a to calculate the                                      Y= 4                                   2               2  t* D
                                                                                                                                                                                    Y = 1.37
F ( [ resulting temperature of the detector Td(t).                                                                     u*            (T *)1/ 2                       2
                                                                                                                          2                  2
                                                                                                                   (( [ ((                               RTI

                                                                                                         Td (t) =      T         T *         1­ (1­ e ­Y)                           Td (t) = 41
                                                                                                                                       2            Y
                                                                                                                       T *    (                              [  + Td(0)
                                                                                                                             2

14. Rate of Rise HD -- Use the relationship for dTd(t)                                                   [( ( dTd =    4     T          (T * )1/4 (1­ e ­Y )              dt        dTd =
                                                                                                                       3     T *             2 [(t / t * ) D]

                                                                                                                                   2                                2
    in equation B.3.3.4.3b.                                                                dt                             ((                                           [

15. If:                                                                                                                                 Repeat Procedure Using

        1. Td > Ts                                                                                       Design                                                           Analysis
        2. Td < Ts                                                                                       1. a larger r
        3. Td = T                                                                                        2. a smaller r                                                   1. a larger tr
                                                                                                         3. s = 1.41 × r =
                                                                                                                                                                          2. a smaller tr

                                                                                                                                                    m                     3. tr =               sec

FIGURE B.3.3.8.3.4 Fire Detection Design and Analysis Worksheet [28] -- Analysis Example 2.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                                                                             2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-336                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table B.3.3.8.5(a) Operating Temperature Versus Heat            Table B.3.3.8.5(f) Ambient Temperature Versus Spacing
   Transfer Rate [S = 9.1 m (30 ft)]                               [Qd = 1000 kW (948 Btu/sec)]

Operating Temperature          Heat Release Rate/                      Ambient                   Spacing
                                 Response Time                       Temperature

        °C               °F    kW/sec Btu/sec/sec               °C    °F                    m             ft

        57         135         2132/213  2022/213               0                 32        3.8           12.5
        74         165         2798/244  2654/244               20                68        5.7           18.7
        93         200         3554/275  3371/275               38    100                   8.8           28.9

 Table B.3.3.8.5(b) Operating Temperature Versus Spacing         Table B.3.3.8.5(g) Ceiling Height Versus Heat Release Rate
   [Qd = 1000 kW (948 Btu/sec)]                                    [S = 9.1 m (30 ft)]
            Y Operating
            L Temperature
                                                                                            Heat Release Rate/
                                                                                              Response Time
        N 57
                                    Spacing                          Ceiling Height

        °C         °F          m                       ft       m                 ft        kW/sec Btu/sec/sec
        O 74
                   135         4.7           15.4               2.4                  8      1787/195      1695/195
                   165         3.5           11.5               4.9               16        2358/224      2237/224
E  Table B.3.3.8.5(c) RTI Versus Heat Release Rate [S = 9.1 m932002.58.27.3       24        3056/255      2899/255
S (30 ft)]
                                                                Table B.3.3.8.5(h) Ceiling Height Versus Spacing [Qd =
                                                                1000 kW (948 Btu/sec)]
L U m12 sec12
A 50          RTI              Heat Release Rate/               Ceiling Height                   Spacing
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 150          Response Time
                                                                m     ft                    m             ft
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} 300
                   ft12 sec12  kW/sec Btu/sec/sec               2.4   8                     5.8           19.0
                      93
                               1609/185  1526/185               4.9   16                    4.0           13.1
                     280       2640/237  2504/237
                     560       3898/288  3697/288
ID Table B.3.3.8.5(d) RTI Versus Spacing [Qd = 1000 kW          7.3   24                    2.1           6.9
IV (948 Btu/sec)]
                                                                 Table B.3.3.8.5(i) Detector Spacing Versus Heat Release Rate
                                                                   [S = 9.1 m (30 ft)]

              D RTI                                                                         Heat Release Rate/
        IN 50                       Spacing                     Detector Spacing              Response Time

m12 sec12          ft12 sec12  m                       ft       m                 ft        kW/sec Btu/sec/sec

OR  Table B.3.3.8.5(e) Ambient Temperature Versus Heat Release936.120.04.6        15        1000/146      949/146
FRate [S = 9.1 m (30 ft)]                                       9.1               30        2132/213      2022/213
150                280         3.7           12.1               15.2              50        4146/297      3932/297
300                560         2.3                     7.6

                                                                 Table B.3.3.8.5(j) Fire Growth Rate Versus Heat Release Rate
                                                                   [S = 9.1 m (30 ft)]

              Ambient          Heat Release Rate/                                           Heat Release Rate/
            Temperature          Response Time                                                Response Time

        °C               °F    kW/sec Btu/sec/sec                         Fire Growth Rate  kW/sec Btu/sec/sec
                                                                Slow tg = 400 sec
        0                32    2552/233  2420/233               Medium tg = 250 sec         1250/435      1186/435
        20               68    1751/193  1661/193               Fast tg = 100 sec           1582/306      1499/306
        38         100         1058/150  1004/150                                           2769/162      2626/162

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          ANNEX B                                                     72-337

Table B.3.3.8.5(k) Fire Growth Rate Versus Spacing                                   ted in Section B.3 is based on knowledge of plume and jet
                                                                                     flows. An understanding of smoke production and aging lags
[Qd = 1000 kW (948 Btu/sec)]                                                         considerably behind an understanding of heat production. In

                                   Spacing                                           addition, the operating characteristics of smoke detectors in
                                                                                     specific fire environments are not often measured or made
Fire Growth Rate              m                     ft                               generally available for other than a very few number of

Slow, tg = 400 sec            8.2                   26.9                             combustible materials. Therefore, the existing knowledge base
Medium, tg = 250 sec          6.5                   21.3                             precludes the development of complete engineering design
Fast, tg = 100 sec            3.7                   12.1                             information for smoke detector location and spacing.

                                                                                     B.4.1.3 In design applications where predicting the response
                                                                                     of smoke detectors is not critical, the spacing criteria presented
B.3.3.9 Rate-of-Rise Heat Detector Spacing.                                          in Chapter 17 should provide sufficient information to design a

   B.3.3.9.1 The preceding procedure can be used to estimate                         very basic smoke detection system. However, if the goals and
   the response of rate-of-rise heat detectors for either design or                  objectives established for the detection system require detector
                                                                                     response within a certain amount of time, optical density, heat
Y analysis purposes. In this case, it is necessary to assume that the                release rate, or temperature rise, then additional analysis might
                                                                                     be needed. For these situations, information regarding the
   heat detector response can be modeled using a lumped mass                         expected fire characteristics (fuel and its fire growth rate),
                                                                                     transport characteristics, detector characteristics, and compart-
L heat transfer model.                                                               ment characteristics is required. The following information
N B.3.3.9.2 In step 3 of Figure B.3.3.4.4, Figure B.3.3.8, and                       regarding smoke detector response and various performance-
                                                                                     based approaches to evaluating smoke detector response is
   Figure B.3.3.8.3.4, the user must determine the rate of temper-                   therefore provided.
                                                                                     B.4.2 Response Characteristics of Smoke Detectors. To deter-
O ature rise (dTd/dt) at which the detector will respond from the                    mine whether a smoke detector will respond to a given QCR, a
                                                                                     number of factors need to be evaluated. These factors include
   manufacturer's data. [Note that listed rate-of-rise heat detectors                smoke characteristics, smoke transport, and detector character-
   are designed to actuate at a nominal rate of temperature rise of                  istics.
                                                                                     B.4.3 Smoke Characteristics.
E 8°C (15°F) per minute.] The user must use the relationship for                     B.4.3.1 Smoke characteristics are a function of the fuel
                                                                                     composition, the mode of combustion (smoldering or flam-
   dTd(t)/dt in Equation B.3.3.4.3b instead of the relationship for                  ing), and the amount of mixing with the ambient air (dilu-
                                                                                     tion). These factors are important for determining the
S Td(t) - Td(0) in Equation B.3.3.4.3a in order to calculate the rate                characteristics of the products of combustion, such as particle
                                                                                     size, distribution, composition, concentration, refractive index,
   of change of the detector temperature. This value is then                         and so on. The significance of these features with regard to
                                                                                     smoke detector response is well documented. [29, 30]
U compared to the rate of change at which the chosen detector is                     B.4.3.2 Whether smoke detectors detect by sensing scattered
                                                                                     light, loss of light transmission (light extinction), or reduction
   designed to respond.                                                              of ion current, they are particle detectors. Thus, particle
                                                                                     concentration, size, color, size distribution, and so forth, affect
 L NOTE: The assumption that heat transfer to a detector can                         each sensing technology differently. It is generally accepted
A be modeled as a lumped mass might not hold for rate-of-rise                        that a flaming, well-ventilated, energetic fire produces smoke
                                                                                     having a larger proportion of the sub-micron diameter particu-
   heat detectors. This is due to the operating principle of this                    lates as opposed to a smoldering fire that produces smoke with
                                                                                     a predominance of large, super-micron particulates. It is also
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U type of detector, in that most rate-of-rise detectors operate    known that as the smoke cools, the smaller particles agglomer-
                                                                                     ate, forming larger ones as they age, and are carried away from
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} when the expansion of air in a chamber expands at a rate fasterthe fire source. More research is necessary to provide sufficient
                                                                                     data to allow the prediction of smoke characteristics at the
ID than it can vent through an opening. To accurately model the                      source, as well as during transport. Furthermore, response
                                                                                     models must be developed that can predict the response of a
   response of a rate-of-rise detector would require modeling the                    particular detector to different kinds of smoke as well as smoke
   heat transfer from the detector body to the air in the chamber,                   that has aged during the flow from the fire to the detector loca-
                                                                                     tion.
IV as well as the air venting through the hole.

   B.3.3.10 Rate Compensation­Type Heat Detectors. Rate-

D compensated detectors are not specifically covered by Annex B.

   However, a conservative approach to predicting their perform-

IN ance is to use the fixed-temperature heat detector guidance

   contained herein.
   B.4 Smoke Detector Spacing for Flaming Fires.

R B.4.1 Introduction.
OB.4.1.1 The listing investigation for smoke detectors does not
Fyield a "listed spacing" as it does for heat detectors. Instead, the

   manufacturers recommend a spacing. Because the largest spac-
   ing that can be evaluated in the full-scale fire test room is 7.6 m
   (25 ft), it has become common practice to recommend 9.1 m
   (30 ft) spacing for smoke detectors when they are installed on
   flat, smooth ceilings. Reductions in smoke detector spacing are
   made empirically to address factors that can affect response,
   including ceiling height, beamed or joisted ceilings, and areas
   that have high rates of air movement.
                                                                                     B.4.4 Transport Considerations.
B.4.1.2 The placement of smoke detectors, however, should
be based on an understanding of fire plume and ceiling jet                           B.4.4.1 All smoke detection relies on the plume and ceiling jet
flows, smoke production rates, particulate changes due to                            flows to transport the smoke from the locus of the fire to the
aging, and the operating characteristics of the particular detec-                    detector. Various considerations must be addressed during this
tor being used. The heat detector spacing information presen-                        transport time, including changes to the characteristics of the

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-338              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

smoke that occur with time and distance from the source, and                      or to even conduct small-scale smoke tests under various condi-
transport time of smoke from the source to the detector.                          tions to assist in the design of the system.

B.4.4.2 The smoke characteristic changes that occur during                        B.4.6 Stratification.
transport relate mainly to the particle size distribution. Particle
size changes during transport occur mainly as a result of sedi-                   B.4.6.1 The potential for the stratification of smoke is another
mentation and agglomeration.                                                      concern in designing and analyzing the response of detectors.
                                                                                  This is of particular concern with the detection of low-energy
B.4.4.3 Transport time is a function of the characteristics of                    fires and fires in compartments with high ceilings.
the travel path from the source to the detector. Important char-
acteristics that should be considered include ceiling height and                  B.4.6.2 The upward movement of smoke in the plume
configuration (e.g., sloped, beamed), intervening barriers such                   depends on the smoke being buoyant relative to the surround-
as doors and beams, as well as dilution and buoyancy effects                      ing air. Stratification occurs when the smoke or hot gases flow-
such as stratification that might delay or prevent smoke in                       ing from the fire fail to ascend to the smoke detectors mounted
being transported to the detector.                                                at a particular level (usually on the ceiling) above the fire due
B.4.4.4 In smoldering fires, thermal energy provides a force                      to the loss of buoyancy. This phenomenon occurs due to the
                                                                                  continuous entrainment of cooler air into the fire plume as it
Y for transporting smoke particles to the smoke sensor. However,                  rises, resulting in cooling of the smoke and fire plume gases.
L usually in the context of smoke detection, the rate of energy                   The cooling of the plume results in a reduction in buoyancy.
                                                                                  Eventually the plume cools to a point where its temperature
(heat) release is small and the rate of growth of the fire is slow.               equals that of the surrounding air and its buoyancy diminishes
                                                                                  to zero. Once this point of equilibrium is reached, the smoke
N Consequently, other factors such as ambient airflow from                        will cease its upward flow and form a layer, maintaining its
                                                                                  height above the fire, regardless of the ceiling height, unless
HVAC systems, differential solar heating of the structure, and                    and until sufficient additional thermal energy is provided from
                                                                                  the fire to raise the layer due to its increased buoyancy. The
O wind cooling of the structure can have a dominant influence                     maximum height to which plume fluid (smoke) will ascend,
                                                                                  especially early in the development of a fire, depends on the
on the transport of smoke particles to the smoke sensor when                      convective heat release rate of the fire and the ambient temper-
low-output fires are considered.                                                  ature in the compartment.
                                                                                  B.4.6.3 Because warm air rises, there will usually be a tempera-
E B.4.4.5 In the early stages of development of a growing fire,                   ture gradient in the compartment. Of particular interest are
S the same interior environmental effects, including ambient                      those cases where the temperature of the air in the upper
                                                                                  portion of the compartment is greater than at the lower level
airflow from HVAC systems, differential solar heating of the                      before the ignition. This can occur as a result of solar load
                                                                                  where ceilings contain glazing materials. Computational meth-
U structure, and wind cooling of the structure, can have a domi-                  ods are available to assess the potential for intermediate stratifi-
                                                                                  cation for the following two cases, depicted in Figure
nant influence on the transport of smoke. This is particularly                    B.4.6.3(a).

L important in spaces having high ceilings. Greater thermal                          Case 1. The temperature of the ambient is relatively constant
                                                                                  up to a height above which there is a layer of warm air at
energy release from the fire is necessary to overcome these                       uniform temperature. This situation can occur if the upper
                                                                                  portion of a mall, atrium, or other large space is unoccupied
A interior environmental effects. Because the fire must attain a                  and the air is left unconditioned.

sufficiently high level of heat release before it can overcome                       Case 2. The ambient interior air of the compartment has a
                                                                                  constant and uniform temperature gradient (temperature
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the interior environmental airflows and drive the smoke to thechange per unit height) from floor to ceiling. This case is
                                                                                  generally encountered in industrial and storage facilities that
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ceiling-mounted detectors, the use of closer spacing of smokeare normally unoccupied.

ID detectors on the ceiling might not significantly improve the                      The analysis of intermediate stratification is presented in

response of the detectors to the fire. Therefore, when consider-
ing ceiling height alone, smoke detector spacing closer than

IV 9.1 m (30 ft) might not be warranted, except in instances

where an engineering analysis indicates additional benefit will

D result. Other construction characteristics also should be consid-

ered. (Refer to the appropriate sections of Chapter 17 dealing with

IN smoke detectors and their use for the control of smoke spread.)

B.4.5 Smoke Dilution. Smoke dilution causes a reduction in
the quantity of smoke per unit of air volume of smoke reaching

R the detector. Dilution typically occurs either by entrainment of

air in the plume or the ceiling jet or by effects of HVAC

O systems. Forced ventilation systems with high air change rates

typically cause the most concern, particularly in the early stages

Fof fire development, when smoke production rate and plume
velocity are both low. Airflows from supply as well as return                     Figure B.4.6.3(b). Plume centerline temperatures from two
vents can create defined air movement patterns within a
compartment, which can either keep smoke away from detec-                         fires, 1000 kW (948 Btu/sec) and 2000 kW (1896 Btu/sec), are
                                                                                  graphed based on estimates from correlations presented in this
tors that are located outside of these paths or can inhibit                       section. In Case 1, a step function is assumed to indicate a
smoke from entering a detector that is located directly in the
airflow path. [26]                                                                30°C/m (16.5°F/ft) change in temperature 15 m (49.2 ft)
                                                                                  above the floor due to the upper portion of the atrium being
                                                                                  unconditioned. For Case 2, a temperature gradient of 1.5°C/m
   There currently are no quantitative methods for estimating                     (0.82°F/ft) is arbitrarily assumed in an atrium that has a ceiling
either smoke dilution or airflow effects on locating smoke                        height of 20 m (65.6 ft).
detectors. These factors should therefore be considered quali-
tatively. The designer should understand that the effects of
airflow become larger as the fire size at detection (QCR) gets                    B.4.6.3.1 Step Function Temperature Gradient Spaces. If the
smaller. Depending on the application, the designer might find                    interior air temperature exhibits a discrete change at some
it useful to obtain airflow and velocity profiles within the room                 elevation above the floor, the potential for stratification can be
                                                                                  assessed by applying the plume centerline temperature correla-

2019 Edition        Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                             ANNEX B                                                                                                                                           72-339

Temperature, °C (°F)                                                                                                                            111 (200)                     The given fire sizes are specified in terms
                                                                                                                  Temperature change, °C (°F)  83.3 (150)                     of total heat release rates, not convective
                                                                                                                                               55.0 (100)                     heat release rates.

                                                                                                                                                                                                       106 kW (100 Btu/sec)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       264 kW (250 Btu/sec)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       528 kW (500 Btu/sec)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       791 kW (750 Btu/sec)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec)

                                       Temperature Temperature                                                                                 27.6 (50)
                                      profile: Case 1 profile: Case 2

FIGURE B.4.6.3(a) Pre-Fire Temperature Profiles.
Y 200 (392)
L 150 (302)
N 100 (212)
                                                             temp. gradient                                                                             0 (0)
                                                                                                                                                                      7.6 15.2 22.9 30.5 38.1 45.7 53.3 61.0
                                                             step function                                                                                            (25) (50) (75) (100) (125) (150) (175) (200)

                                                             plume, 1000 kW                                                                                                  Maximum height of smoke rise, m (ft)
                                                             (948 Btu/sec)
                                                                                                                                             FIGURE B.4.6.3.2.2 Temperature Change and Maximum
                                                             plume, 2000 kW                                                                  Height of Smoke Rise for Given Fire Sizes.
                                                             (1896 Btu/sec)
O 50 (122)
E 0                                                                                                                                            or

S 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                      [B.4.6.3.2b]
                        5                 U Height, m (ft)10 15              20                                                                          =           1/  4    T        -3 / 8
                                                                                                                                                                     c              0           (for inch-pound units)
                     (16.4)                 (32.8)           (49.2)          (65.6)                                                                Z        14.7  Q
                                                                                                                                                      m                       dZ
FIGURE B.4.6.3(b) Indoor Air and Plume Temperature

L Profiles with Potential for Intermediate Stratification.
A tion. If the plume centerline temperature is equal to the ambi-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ent temperature, the plume is no longer buoyant, loses its

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} upward momentum, and stratifies at that height. The plume

ID centerline temperature can be calculated by using the follow-

  ing equation:
                                                             IV [B.4.6.3.1a]               where:
         D T = 25Q z 2/3 -5/3 + 20 (for SI units)                                            Zm = maximum height of smoke rise above the fire surface
               c            IN [B.4.6.3.1b]c                                                        (m or ft)

R where:                                                                                   T0 = difference between the ambient temperature at the
OTc = plume centerline temperature (°C or °F)                                                       location of detectors and the ambient temperature at
FQc = convective portion of fire heat release rate (kW or                                           the level of the fire surface (°C or °F)
T     =  316   Q2    /  3z  -5  /  3  + 70           (for inch-pound units)
   c              c                                                                          Qc = convective portion of the heat release rate (kW or
                                                                                                    Btu/sec)
     Btu/sec)
z = height above the top of the fuel package involved (m or                                B.4.6.3.2.1 The convective portion of the heat release rate
                                                                                           (Qc) can be estimated as 70 percent of the heat release rate.
     ft)                                                                                   B.4.6.3.2.2 As an alternative to using the noted expression to
                                                                                           directly calculate the maximum height to which the smoke or
                                                                                           heat will rise, Figure B.4.6.3.2.2 can be used to determine Zm
                                                                                           for given fires. Where Zm, as calculated or determined graphi-
                                                                                           cally, is greater than the installed height of detectors, smoke or
                                                                                           heat from a rising fire plume is predicted to reach the detec-
                                                                                           tors. Where the compared values of Zm and the installed height
                                                                                           of detectors are comparable heights, the prediction that smoke
                                                                                           or heat will reach the detectors might not be a reliable expecta-
                                                                                           tion.

B.4.6.3.2 Linear Temperature Gradient Spaces. To determine                                 B.4.6.3.2.3 Assuming the ambient temperature varies linearly
whether or not the rising smoke or heat from an axisymmetric                               with the height, the minimum Qc required to overcome the
                                                                                           ambient temperature difference and drive the smoke to the
                                                                                           ceiling (Zm = H) can be determined from the following equa-
fire plume will stratify below detectors, the following equation                           tion:

can be applied where the ambient temperature increases line-                                                                                                                                                   [B.4.6.3.2.3a]
arly with increasing elevation:
                                                                                                                                                                                                               (for SI units)
                                                                                                                                                            Q     =  0.0018H           5  /  2  T 3      /  2
                                                                                                                                                               c                                      0

                                                                             [B.4.6.3.2a]

         Z        =  5.54   Q      1/  4    T        -3 / 8  (for SI units)
            m                      c              0  

                                            dZ

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                                                                                                2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-340                                                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

or                                                                                     quantifying L for different detectors and relating it to spacing
                                                                                       requirements can have limited usefulness, and the concept of
                                                                                       critical velocity (uc) could be more applicable. [21]
                                                                       [B.4.6.3.2.3b]

        Q      =  2.39  × 10 -5  H  5 / 2T 3        /2     (for inch-pound units)      B.4.7.3 Critical Velocity. A smoke detector's critical velocity
            c                                    0                                     refers to the minimum velocity of the smoke necessary to enter

Note that the variables are identified in Section B.7.                                 the sensing chamber to cause an alarm without significant
                                                                                       delays due to smoke entry lag. Alarms can occur at velocities
B.4.6.3.2.4 The theoretical basis for the stratification calcula-                      less than the critical velocity value, but their response can be
tion is based on the works of Morton, Taylor, and Turner [15]                          delayed or require greater smoke concentrations than would
and Heskestad [9]. For further information regarding the deri-                         normally be necessary. Flow across a detector causes a pressure
vation of the expression defining Zm, the user is referred to the                      differential between the upstream and downstream sides of the
work of Klote and Milke [13] and NFPA 92.                                              detector. This pressure differential is the principal driving force
B.4.7 Detector Characteristics.                                                        for the smoke entering the unit.
                                                                                          Experimental work has indicated that the critical velocity is
Y B.4.7.1 General. Once smoke is transported to the detector,
                                                                                       approximately 0.15 m/sec (0.49 ft/sec) for the ionization
additional factors become important in determining whether                             detectors tested in one particular study. [21] Once velocities
                                                                                       were reduced below this level, the smoke concentration level
L response will occur. These include the aerodynamic character-                        outside the detector before an alarm condition increased
                                                                                       dramatically when compared to smoke concentration levels
istics of the detector and the type of sensor within the detector.                     when the velocity was above the critical value. Another study
                                                                                       found that measured velocities at the time of alarm for ioniza-
N The aerodynamics of the detector relate to how easily smoke                          tion and photoelectric detectors in full-scale flaming fire tests
                                                                                       generally supported this velocity value, with a mean value of
can pass through the detector housing and enter the sensor                             0.13 m/sec (0.43 ft/sec) and a standard deviation of
                                                                                       0.07 m/sec (0.23 ft/sec) [46]. Estimating the critical velocity
O portion of the unit. Additionally, the location of the entry                         can therefore be useful for design and analysis.

portion to the sensor with respect to the velocity profile of the                         It is interesting to note that this critical velocity value
ceiling jet is also an important factor. Finally, different sensing                    (0.15 m/sec or 0.49 ft/sec) is close to that at which a smoke
                                                                                       detector must respond in the UL smoke detector sensitivity
E methods (e.g., ionization or photoelectric) will respond differ-                     chamber in order to become listed. [35] The location in the
S ently, depending on the smoke characteristics (smoke color,                          ceiling jet where this velocity occurs for a given fire and ceiling
                                                                                       height might therefore be considered as a first approximation
particle size, optical density, and so forth). Within the family of                    for locating detectors. This again assumes a horizontal, smooth
                                                                                       ceiling. Care should also be taken when using this correlation,
U photoelectric devices, there will be variations depending on the                     such that consideration is given to potential effects of coagula-
                                                                                       tion and agglomeration, and settling of the smoke within the
wavelengths of light and the scattering angles employed. The                           ceiling jet as it moves away from the fire source and loses its
following paragraphs discuss some of these issues and various                          buoyancy. The velocity for smoke entry might be present, but
                                                                                       the concentration of smoke might not be sufficient to actuate
L calculation methods.                                                                 the detector.
A B.4.7.2 Resistance to Smoke Entry.                                                   B.4.7.4 Response to Smoke Color. Smoke detectors that use
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U B.4.7.2.1 All spot-type smoke detectors require smoke to enter     an optical means to detect smoke respond differently to
                                                                                       smokes of different colors.
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} the detection chamber in order to be sensed. This requires        B.4.7.4.1 Manufacturers currently provide limited information
                                                                                       regarding the response of smoke detectors in their specifica-
ID additional factors to be taken into consideration when attempt-                     tions as well as in the information contained on the labels on
                                                                                       the backs of the detectors. This response information indicates
ing to estimate smoke detector response, as smoke entry into                           only their nominal response values with respect to gray smoke,
the detection chamber can be affected in several ways, for

IV example, insect screens, sensing chamber configuration, and

location of the detector with respect to the ceiling.

D B.4.7.2.2 In trying to quantify this, Heskestad [32] developed

the idea of smoke detector lag to explain the difference in opti-

IN cal density outside (Dur) versus inside (Duo) of a detector when

the detector actuates. It was demonstrated that this difference
could be explained by the use of a correction factor Duc using

R the following relationship:
FO L
                                                                       [B.4.7.2.2]

                                                        d  (  D     )
                                                                 u

                                    D      =             dt                            not to black, and is often provided with a response range
                                       uc               V                              instead of an exact response value. This range is in accordance

where:                                                                                 with ANSI/UL 268, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm
                                                                                       Systems.
        L = characteristic length for a given detector design,
              represents the ease of smoke entry into the sensing                      B.4.7.4.2 The response ranges allowable by UL for gray smoke
              chamber                                                                  are shown in Table B.4.7.4.2. Older editions of ANSI/UL 268
                                                                                       contained response ranges for black smoke and are also shown
d(Du)/dt = rate of increase of optical density outside the detec-                      for comparison.
              tor
        V = velocity of the smoke at the detector
                                                                                       B.4.7.4.3 Detectors respond at different optical density levels
                                                                                       to different fuels and different types of smoke. Examples of this
B.4.7.2.3 Various studies regarding this correlation have provi-                       are shown in Table B.4.7.4.3, which contains values of optical
ded additional insight regarding smoke entry and associated
lags [33, 34, 34a, 34b, 34c, 34d, 34e]; however, the difficulty in

2019 Edition                               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    ANNEX B                                                             72-341

density at response recommended by Heskestad and Delichat-          amount of smoke and the amount of heat produced by a fire is
sios [10] based on their test.                                      highly dependent on the fuel and the way it is burning,
                                                                    research has shown that the relationship between temperature
   Note the large variations in response not only to materials      and the optical density of smoke remains somewhat constant
producing relatively the same color of smoke but also to smoke      within the fire plume and on the ceiling in the proximity of the
of different color, which is much more pronounced. Also note        plume.
that there was variation in the optical density at response values
for a given material in the test conducted by Heskestad and         B.4.7.5.1 These results were based on the work by Heskestad
Delichatsios, which is not shown in Table B.4.7.4.3. The values     and Delichatsios [10] and are indicated in Table B.4.7.5.1.
cited in Table B.4.7.4.3 are provided as an example of the varia-   Note that for a given fuel, the optical density to temperature
tion in optical density at response, but these values are not       rise ratio between the maximum and minimum levels is 10 or
necessarily appropriate for all analyses. For example, the results  less.
presented for polyurethane and PVC involved relatively large,
rapidly developing fires, and fires with smaller growth rates
could result in smaller values of optical density at response
[10]. More information on the variation of optical density at

Y response is available from Geiman and Gottuk [48] and
L Geiman [46].

B.4.7.5 Optical Density and Temperature. During a flaming

N fire, smoke detector response is affected by ceiling height and

the size and rate of fire growth in much the same way as heat

O detector response. The thermal energy of the flaming fire

transports smoke particles to the sensing chamber just as it

E does heat to a heat sensor. While the relationship between the
S  Table B.4.7.4.2 ANSI/UL 268 Smoke Detector Test                  B.4.7.5.2 In situations where the optical density at detector
U Acceptance Criteria for Different Colored Smoke [35]              response is known and is independent of particle size distribu-
 L Color of                                                         tion, the detector response can be approximated as a function
                                                                    of the heat release rate of the burning fuel, the fire growth
         Smoke                                                      rate, and the ceiling height, assuming that the preceding corre-
                                                                    lation exists.
A Gray                                                              B.4.7.5.3 When Appendix C of NFPA 72E [58] was first
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Black                                           published in 1984, a 13°C (20°F) temperature rise was used to
Acceptable Response Range                                           indicate detector response. Schifiliti and Pucci [18] have
                                                                    combined some of the data from Heskestad and Delichatsios
%/m                                       %/ft                      [10] to produce Table B.4.7.5.3 showing the temperature rise
                                                                    at detector response. Note that the temperature rise associated
1.6­12.5                                  0.5­4.0                   with detector response varies significantly depending on the
5.0­29.2                                  1.5­10.0                  detector type and fuel.

                                                                       Also note that the values in Table B.4.7.5.3 are not based on
                                                                    temperature measurements taken at the detector response
                                                                    times, but were calculated by Heskestad and Delichatsios [10]
                                                                    from their recommended values of optical density at response
                                                                    (Table B.4.7.4.3) and their recommended ratios of optical
                                                                    density to temperature rise (Table B.4.7.5.1).
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Table B.4.7.4.3 Values of Optical Density at Response for Flaming Fires [18]
DIV Material
IN Wood crib                       Optical Density at Response

Cotton fabric
Polyurethane foam

R PVC

Variation
            Dur(m-1)                                  Dur(ft-1)             Relative Smoke
Ionization Photoelectric                  Ionization Photoelectric                Color
                                                                                   Light
0.016                              0.049  0.005                     0.015          Light
0.002                              0.026  0.0005                    0.008          Dark
0.164                              0.164  0.05                      0.05           Dark
0.328                              0.328  0.1                       0.1
FO  Table B.4.7.5.1 Ratio of Optical Density to Temperature Rise
                                                  200:1             12.5:1

                                          Du/T [(m°C)-1]                    Du/T [(ft°F)-1]

                    Material       Representative                 Value     Representative                       Value  Maximum:
Wood (sugar pine, 5% moist)              Value                    Range           Value                          Range  Minimum
Cotton (unbleached muslin fabric)
Paper (in trash can)                  1.20E-03        8.9E-4­3.2E-3            2.00E-04         1.5E­5.5E-4                 3.7:1
Polyurethane foam                  5.9E-4/1.2E-3      3.0E-4­1.8E-3         1.0E-04/2.0­4     5.0E-5­3.0E-4                  6:1
Polyester fiber (bed pillow)                        Data not available                      Data not available               --
PVC (wire insulation)                 1.80E-03        1.2E-2­3.2E-2            3.00E-04       2.0E-3­5.5E-3                 2.8:1
Foam rubber PU (sofa cushion)         2.40E-03      Data not available         4.00E-04     Data not available               --
Average                               1.80E-02        5.9E-3­5.9E-2         5.0E-3/1.0E-2     1.0E-3­1.0E-2                 10:1
                                   3.0E-2/5.9E-2    Data not available         3.00E-03     Data not available               --
                                      7.70E-02        3.0E-4­7.7E-2            1.30E-02       5.0E-05­1.3E-2               260:1
                                      2.10E-02                                 3.60E-03

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-342                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

   Several experimental studies have cited temperature rises at  B.4.8.1.4 Using the power law equation, the design objective
detection as low as 1°C to 3°C (1.8°F to 5.4°F). Of particular   response time is calculated as follows:
note, Geiman [46] found that for flaming fires, 80 percent of
the ionization detectors examined in full-scale smoke detection                                                                                     [B.4.8.1.4a]
tests alarmed at measured temperature rises less than or equal
to 3°C (5.4°F).                                                                             Q = t 2
                                                                                                 DO       DO

B.4.8 Methods for Estimating Smoke Detector Response.                           2000 kW = 0.047 kW/sec2 (t 2 )
                                                                                                                                            DO
B.4.8.1 General. There are various methods to estimate
smoke detector response. Research is still needed in this area
to reflect smoke production, transport to the detector,                                t    = 210 sec
                                                                                        DO

response of the detector, and performance metrics of the         or
smoke detector. Designers should be aware of the advantages
and disadvantages, as well as limitations, of these methods and                                                               [B.4.8.1.4b]
undertake sensitivity analyses and use of multiple methods                   1897 Btu/sec = 0.044 Btu/sec3 (t 2 )

Y where applicable.                                                                                                                                   DO
L B.4.8.1.1 Method 1 -- Optical Density Versus Temperature.
N B.4.8.1.2 The following example is intended to determine                                  t    =   210  sec
                                                                                             DO
whether an existing fire detection system can detect a fire in
part of a warehouse used to store wardrobes in sufficient time   B.4.8.1.5 Next, subtract the time for the fire brigade to
                                                                 respond to determine what time after ignition that detection
O to prevent radiant ignition of adjacent wardrobes. The area    should occur. Note that a 30-second safety factor has been
                                                                 added to the fire brigade's response time.
under review has a large, flat ceiling, 5 m (16.5 ft) high. The
                                                                                                                                                    [B.4.8.1.5]
E ambient temperature within the compartment is 20°C (68°F).
                                                                                t = 210 sec - 120 sec = 90 sec
The compartment is not sprinklered. The wardrobes are
                                                                                 CR
S constructed mainly of particleboard. The detectors are

ionization-type smoke detectors spaced 6.1 m (20 ft) on center.

U The design objective is to keep the maximum heat release rate

(QDO) below 2 MW (1897 Btu/sec) in order to ensure that radi-

L ant ignition of the wardrobes in the adjacent aisle will not

occur. There is an on-site fire brigade that can respond to and

A begin discharging water on the fire within 90 seconds of receiv-

ing the alarm. It can be assumed that there are no other delays

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U between the time the detector reaches its operating threshold

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} and the time to notification of the fire brigade. Given this

ID information, would the existing system be sufficient?

B.4.8.1.3 The following assumptions are made for this exam-

IV ple:
        D [B.4.8.1.3]

           ( )  = 0.047 kW/sec2 0.044 Btu/sec3

   IN( ) RTI = 25 m1/2sec1/2 45 ft1/2 sec1/2
R Temperature rise for response = 14°C (25°F)
O Refer to Table B.4.7.5.3 for temperature rise to response of
Fan ionization smoke detector for a wood fire.
                                                                 B.4.8.1.6 Then calculate the critical heat release rate at which
                                                                 detection should occur as follows:

                                                                                                                                                    [B.4.8.1.6a]

                                                                                            Q = t 2
                                                                                                 CR       CR

                                                                                                                                                    [B.4.8.1.6b]

                                                                     QCR        = 0.047 kW/sec2 (90           sec   2  = 380                    kW

                                                                                                                   )

                                                                 or

                                                                     Q       =  0.044  Btu/sec3 (90       sec   2  =   360  Btu/sec
                                                                         CR
                                                                                                               )

                                                                 B.4.8.1.7 Using the numbers in the fire detection design and
                                                                 analysis worksheet at 90 seconds into the fire when the heat
                                                                 release rate is 380 kW (360 Btu/sec), the temperature rise at
                                                                 the detector is calculated to be approximately 17°C (30.6°F).
                                                                 This, therefore, might be a reasonable approximation to show
                                                                 that the detector might respond.

Table B.4.7.5.3 Temperature Rise for Detector Response [18]      B.4.8.2 Method 2 -- Mass Optical Density.

                Ionization  Scattering Temperature               B.4.8.2.1 Data regarding smoke characteristics for given fuels
               Temperature              Rise                     can be used as another method to evaluate detector response.
                                                                 B.4.8.2.2 The following example is provided.
                    Rise
                                                                    The design objective established for this scenario is to detect
     Material  °C    °F     °C    °F                             the smoke from a flaming 400 g (1.0 lb) polyurethane chair
Wood                                                             cushion in less than 2 minutes. The chair is placed in a
Cotton         13.9  25     41.7  75                             compartment that is 40 m2 (431 ft2). The ceiling height is 3.0 m
Polyurethane   1.7   3      27.8  50                             (10 ft). It has been determined that the burning rate of the
PVC            7.2   13     7.2   13                             cushion is a steady rate of 50 g/min (0.09 lb/min). Determine
Average        7.2   13     7.2   13                             whether the design objective will be met.

               7.8   14     21.1  38

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                 ANNEX B                                                                                       72-343

B.4.8.2.3 The total mass loss of the cushion due to combus-                                                                                    [B.4.8.2.6c]
tion at 2 minutes is 100 g (0.22 lb). Therefore, the optical
density in the room produced by the burning cushion can be                                   r  =      DM        1 / 2
calculated from the following equation: [5]                                                                m     

                                                                     [B.4.8.2.3]                      0.14h

             DM                                                                      Note that the results of this calculation are highly dependent
        D= m                                                                      upon the assumed layer thickness, h. The designer must care-

               V
                       c

where:                                                                            fully document the value used for the ceiling jet thickness for
                                                                                  this reason. This method does not assume any minimum veloc-
Dm = mass optical density (m2/g) [26]                                             ity across the detector, nor does it provide for any delay due to
  M = mass (g)                                                                    smoke entry. Finally, it assumes uniform smoke concentration
   Vc = volume of the compartment                                                 throughout the solution volume. Failure to use prudently selec-
   D = [(0.22 m2/g)(100 g)]/(40 m2)(3 m) = 0.183 m-1                              ted values for ceiling jet thickness and use of this relation
                                                                                  outside the limitations imposed by the assumptions can lead to
 Y or where:                                                                      invalid designs.
 L Dm = mass optical density (ft2/lb) [26]                                        B.4.8.2.7 The mass optical density method also enables the
 N M = mass (lb)                                                                  designer to analyze existing systems. When we accept the
 O Vc = volume of the compartment                                                 assumption that smoke detectors listed by UL will respond at
                                                                                  an optical density of 0.14 m-1, we can write the relation:
     D = [(1075 ft2/lb)(0.22 lb)]/(431 ft2)(9.8 ft) = 0.056 ft-1
                                                                                                                                               [B.4.8.2.7a]
E B.4.8.2.4 If it is assumed that the detector responds at an opti-
S cal density of 0.15 m-1 (0.046 ft-1), the maximum black smoke                                                  DM
                                                                                             D        0.14       m
  optical density allowed in a previous edition of the ANSI/                                    A  =        =
                                                                                                                 V
U UL 268 sensitivity test [35], it can be assumed that the detector                                                        c

  will respond within 2 minutes.                                                  and thus

L B.4.8.2.5 It should be noted that this method presents a very                                                                                [B.4.8.2.7b]

  simplified approach, and that various assumptions would need                               M = D r 2h /D
                                                                                                      A                       m
A to be made including that the smoke is confined to the room,

  is well mixed, can reach the ceiling, and can enter the detector.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B.4.8.2.6 The preceding estimation assumes that the smoke is
ID evenly distributed throughout the entire compartment volume.

  This is rarely the case but establishes a very conservative limit.
  For design purposes, one can model the smoke layer as a cylin-

IV drical volume centered about the fire plume having a depth

  equivalent to the ceiling jet thickness or some multiple of it.

D Refer to Figure B.4.8.2.6.
     The volume of the cylinder can now be used as the solution

IN volume:
                                                                                     for a cylindrical solution volume.
                                                                                     Since H(t) = MHc and H(t) = (t3)/3, we can write the rela-
                                                                                  tion

                                                                                                       (t 3 )                                  [B.4.8.2.7c]

                                                                                                   M=
                                                                                                         3H

                                                                                                                        c

   R DM                                          [B.4.8.2.6a]
                                       D= m
                                              V

 Oc
Fis used with the substitution of

                                                 [B.4.8.2.6b]                     Vc = r 2h

        V = r 2h                                                                                                                 r
          c                                                                                                                                 h

   To obtain the maximum radius from the fire plume center-
line at which detector response is expected, the nominal
0.14 m-1 optical density criterion is substituted into the relation
and an explicit relation for r is obtained,

                                                                                  FIGURE B.4.8.2.6 Smoke Layer Volume Model.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-344                                                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Substituting, this leads to the relation                                          medium growth rate fires. In the UL smoke box test, the mini-
                                                                                  mum flow velocity at the detector is 0.152 m/sec (30 ft/
                                                                    [B.4.8.2.7d]  minute). The correlation

                       ( ) t 3  =    D r 2h                                                                                        [B.4.8.3a]
                                        A

                       3H D c            m                                        ( ) 0.195 Q 1/3H 1/2

This relation is reorganized to be explicit in t,                                         r 5/6                    for r /h  0.15

                                                                    [B.4.8.2.7e]     is used. Ur is set to equal 0.152 m/sec. With this substitution
                                                                                  the relation becomes:

                    =    3D r 2hH              c  1 / 3
                            A                     
Y This time estimate must be corrected for the lag timet
                                D                                                                                                  [B.4.8.3b]
produced by the resistance to smoke entry of the detector.m

L Currently, this time delay, which is a function of detector                        ( ) r  1.28Q 1/3H 1/2 6/5
                                                                                                          c
design and ceiling jet velocity, is not quantified in the listing

N process. Consequently, the designer must make an estimate of

the time delay due to smoke entry, te. Thus, the response time

O estimate becomes:
              USE t                                                                  This relation is solved to obtain the maximum distance
                                                                    [B.4.8.2.7f]  between the fire plume centerline and the detector at which
                                                                                  the critical jet velocity is expected to be obtained for the given
                 =    3D r 2hH              1 / 3  +t                             convective heat release rate and ceiling height.
                         A               c              e                         B.4.9 Projected Beam Smoke Detection.
                                                                                  B.4.9.1 Projected beam smoke detection is often used in large
                            D                                                     open spaces with high ceilings where the use of spot-type detec-
                                  m                                               tors is impractical due to the problems of smoke stratification.
                                                                                  In these spaces, there is questionable basis for the use of the
                                                                                  prescriptive spacings presented in Section 17.7. However,
                                                                                  beams can be installed such that, regardless of the fire origin,
                                                                                  the plume will intersect at least one beam. To employ this strat-
                                                                                  egy, the plume divergence is calculated as a function of the alti-
                                                                                  tude at which the projected beam detectors are installed. The
                                                                                  region of relatively uniform temperature and smoke density in
                                                                                  a buoyant plume diverges at an angle of approximately
                                                                                  22 degrees, as shown in Figure B.4.9.1.

                                                                                     Another method involves assessing the smoke obstruction
                                                                                  through the plume to determine the reduction in light from
                                                                                  the receiver to the transmitter of the beam-type smoke detector
                                                                                  to determine whether the detector might respond. [47]
                                                                                  B.4.10 Effects of HVAC Systems. The requirement to address
                                                                                  the effects of HVAC systems on the performance of smoke
                                                                                  detectors was historically reduced to a "3-foot rule." However,
                                                                                  research conducted under the auspices of the Fire Protection
                                                                                  Research Foundation showed that such a simple rule was not
                                                                                  adequate in many cases.
   This relation predicts the time at which the mass optical

L density attains the detector alarm threshold in the solution
A volume derived from the detector spacing and an assumed ceil-

ing jet thickness. Again, the results of this calculation are highly

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U dependent upon the assumed ceiling jet layer thickness.

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} However, once time, t, is known, if the fire can be characterized

ID as a t-square fire, the fire size can be calculated from the rela-

tion
                            IV Q =t2
D Consequently, substitution of this relation into the preceding    [B.4.8.2.7g]
IN relation yields the final analytical relation for the heat release

rate at alarm, Qa:
 ORQ
Fa                                                                  [B.4.8.2.7h]

              =        3D r 2hH             c     1 / 3  +t      2
                            A                                 e  
                                                                 
                               D
                                     m

                                                                                                         0.2 H

   This relation provides an estimate of detector response                                                      ø  ø  22°
subject to the assumptions and values selected or the relevant
parameters. The estimate can be no better than the data used                      H
to generate it.
B.4.8.3 Critical Velocity Method. Research shows that a mini-                      FIGURE B.4.9.1 The Plume Divergence of an
mum critical velocity is necessary before smoke can enter the                        Unconstrained Fire.
sensing chamber of the smoke detector. (See B.4.7.3.) This
method assumes that, if this critical velocity has been attained,
sufficient smoke concentration is in the ceiling jet gas flow to
produce an alarm signal. Ceiling jet velocity correlations exist
for steady-state fires, not t-square fires. However, a t-square fire
can be modeled as a succession of steady-state fires for slow and

2019 Edition                    Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        ANNEX B                                                                72-345

Theoretically, the effect of HVAC flows on the performance                            mum velocity necessary for reliable smoke detector response.
of smoke detectors can be implemented by calculating the flow                         The use of the 30 ft/min (0.15 m/sec) flow velocity in the
velocity and smoke concentration at the detector as a function                        UL 268 and 217 smoke detector sensitivity test for spot-type
of fire growth and HVAC operating parameters. With complex                            smoke detectors has led to the evolution of spot-type smoke
ceilings this often requires the use of computational fluid                           detectors that are optimized for that flow velocity. In listing
dynamics models running in computers. One such model is                               investigations, it has been learned that when the ceiling jet
FDS, developed and supported by NIST.                                                 velocity is less than the nominal 30 ft/min (0.15 m/sec)
                                                                                      commercially available, listed spot-type smoke detector,
   However, for simple, planar ceilings at heights customarily                        performance begins to suffer. (See B.4.7.3.)
encountered in conventional construction, the effects of HVAC
system can be estimated using a simplified calculation derived                        For the prediction of spot-type smoke detector response we
from well-known correlations to identify where a problem is                           assume that the ceiling jet velocity at the detector must exceed
likely. These simple calculations are not a substitute for a fully  this critical velocity, 0.15 m/sec (30 ft/min), at the detector.
   modeled scenario, but they provide the advantage of being                          The flow from an HVAC system supply register also produces a
   easily executed in a short time frame.                                             flow velocity. When a fire occurs in a room equipped with
                                                                                      ceiling-mounted HVAC system supply, the velocity at the detec-
 Y Ceiling-mounted HVAC system supply and return registers                            tor is the vector sum of the velocity due to the HVAC system
                                                                                      supply and the fire ceiling jet.
   are designed to produce specific airflow patterns. The exact
                                                                                         To estimate the resultant flow velocity at a smoke detector,
L shape of the velocity and flow volume profiles is determined by                     the flow velocity from the ceiling supply is determined as a
                                                                                      function of register design, flow volume, and distance from the
   the physical design of the register. A commercially available                      supply register. The velocity produced by the ceiling jet is calcu-
                                                                                      lated as a function of distance from the fire plume. The worst-
N register might exhibit a flow profile as shown in Figure B.4.10.                    case limit condition is where the detector location is where the
 O This section considers two cases. The first is where the ceil-                     ceiling jet flow is directly opposite in direction to the flow from
                                                                                      the HVAC supply register. Consequently, it is assumed that the
   ing jet is being acted upon by an HVAC system supply. The                          ceiling jet is flowing in the opposite direction of the flow from
   second is where the ceiling jet is being acted upon by an HVAC                     the ceiling register.

E system return. Each case is considered in its bounding value                           The flow of air into a compartment via the HVAC system can
                                                                                      be estimated by the flow volume and a flow factor that is rela-
   condition to provide a worst-case estimate of the resulting                        ted to the flow characteristics of the supply register. See Figure
                                                                                      B.4.10.1(a) for an example of such characteristics.
S velocity at the detector.
 U In the first case, the flow of air from the ceiling supply can                        The manufacturer of the ceiling supply register provides a
                                                                                      velocity diagram that depicts flow velocity as a function of flow
   divert, impede, and dilute the ceiling jet flow, retarding detec-                  volume for each register it produces. In the U.S., these
                                                                                      diagrams generally use conventional feet per minute (FPM)
L tor response. This effect can be estimated using a one-                             and cubic feet per minute (CFM) units. Since fire protection
                                                                                      engineering correlations are generally expressed in metric
   dimensional vector analysis of the velocity produced by the                        units, it is necessary to convert the flow volume and flow veloc-
                                                                                      ity from the HVAC system to metric units. Replacing CFM with
A HVAC system versus that produced by the fire. The velocity                          flow volume per unit time this relation becomes:

   profile produced by the HVAC supply register is determined by                                                               [B.4.10.1a]

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the design of the register and the flow volume supplied to it.       v    = k(V )/d 2        m/sec
                                                                                           r
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} The velocity at the detector produced by the fire is an artifact

ID of the ceiling jet. The sum of these two velocities versus the

   minimum velocity for response can be used to determine if
   sufficient ceiling jet velocity exists at the detector to initiate an

IV alarm.
      In the second case, the HVAC return pulls air up from lower

D elevations in the compartment, diluting the smoke density in

   the ceiling jet in the vicinity of the HVAC return. This case is

IN much more difficult to evaluate because it implies a flow

   volume analysis to determine when the flow to ceiling-mounted
   HVAC returns will distort the concentration profile of the ceil-

R ing jet to the point that it adversely affects detector response.

   Unfortunately, the listings of smoke detectors do not include
   an explicit measurable value for detector sensitivity in terms

Othat can relate to the design fire.
FB.4.10.1 Effects of HVAC Ceiling Supply Registers. This

   method makes use of the finding that there is a critical mini-
                                                                                      where:
                                                                                      vr = is the velocity due to the register

                                                                                         The ceiling jet velocity can be modeled with the relation for
                                                                                      critical velocity developed by Alpert.

                                                                                                                               [B.4.10.1b]

                                                                                         0.195  Q H 1/3 1/2      r 5/6  m/sec
                                                                                                   c
                                                                                      =( ) v
                                                                                        d

Airflow pattern                        Airflow pattern                                   The flow at the detector is the sum of the velocity from the
 from supply                               to return                                  ceiling jet and the ceiling supply register. Since the worst-case
                                                                                      scenario is where the fire is located such that the flow of the
FIGURE B.4.10 Typical HVAC Flow Patterns in Mercantile                                ceiling jet is directly opposed to the flow from the HVAC supply
and Business Occupancies.                                                             register, this scenario forms the basis for the analysis as shown
                                                                                      in Figure B.4.10.1(b).

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-346                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

   The velocity from the ceiling jet is derived from Alpert's    r                        d
correlations.

                                                  [B.4.10.1c]

                    = 0.195  Q H 1/3 1/2   r 5/6
                                c
                    ( ) v
                      d

where:
vd = ceiling jet velocity at the detector
Qc = convective heat release, 0.65 Q
H = ceiling height
r = radius, distance between plume centerline and the detec-
      tor
   All in metric units.

Y In the case of opposing flows, the resultant velocity at the
L detector is the ceiling jet velocity minus the velocity due to the

flow from the HVAC supply. The relation becomes:
                                                  N [B.4.10.1d]  FIGURE B.4.10.1(b) Ceiling Jet Flow in Opposition to Flow
              O ( ) v = 0.195 Q H 1/3 1/2 /r 5/6 - k (V )/d 2    from HVAC System.
E Smoke detector response can be expected to be consistentdc
S with its listing when the value of vd is greater than or equal toB.4.10.2 Effects of HVAC Returns. When detectors are in
                                                                 close proximity to ceiling-mounted HVAC return grilles, the
0.15 m/sec. Thus the relation becomes:                           flow of air upward toward the return grille tends to dilute and
            U [B.4.10.1e]                                        cool the ceiling jet. This tends to retard the response of detec-
 L ( ) 0.15 m/sec  0.195 Q H 1/3 1/2 /r 5/6 - k (CFM )/d 2       tors. Unfortunately the geometry is more complex in this case.
                                                                 The ceiling jet is moving horizontally across the ceiling while
                                                                cthe flow toward a ceiling-mounted return grille is essentially
                                                                 moving vertically.
A If the right-hand side of the equation B.4.10.1e exceeds the
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U left, the airflow from the HVAC register should not be suffi-Most ceiling return grilles usually exhibit a flow velocity
                                                                 profile that is roughly hemispherical in shape, centered on the
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} cient to reduce the ceiling jet flow from the fire plume to theduct centerline. Figure B.4.10.2 illustrates this flow velocity
                                                                 profile.
ID point where response by a smoke detector would not be expec-
                                                                    As the radial distance from the HVAC return increases, the
ted. On the other hand, if the calculated resultant velocity is  velocity drops off quite rapidly, proportional to 4 times the
less than the 0.15 m/sec threshold, adjustments should be        square of the increase in distance. The relative velocity contri-
                                                                 butions could be again used to calculate the relative effect, but
IV made to the design to locate the smoke detector where there   in this case an explicit sensitivity parameter that relates to the
                                                                 design fire is not available. Percent per foot obscuration cannot
will be sufficient ceiling jet velocity to predict alarm response.be reliably used.
OR IND 80 fpm
F20 fpm                                           1 ft              However, the bounding value, worst-case scenario is where
                                                                 the upward velocity is modeled as if it is flowing directly oppo-
40 fpm                                            2 ft           site to that of the ceiling jet. This reduces to the same analysis
                                                                 as for the ceiling supply.
                                                  3 ft
                                                                    These calculations do NOT replace CFD modeling. They are
                                                                 limited only for level ceilings of heights normally encountered
                                                                 in commercial construction. In that limited context they can be
                                                                 used to predict smoke detector performance.
                                                                 B.5 Radiant Energy Detection.
                                                                 B.5.1 General.
                                                                 B.5.1.1 Electromagnetic Radiation. Electromagnetic radiation
10 fpm                                            4 ft           is emitted over a broad range of the spectrum during the

                                                                 combustion process. The portion of the spectrum in which

                     v = k(CFM)/d 2 (converted to metric units)  FIGURE B.4.10.2 Velocity Profile for Ceiling-Mounted
                                                                 Return Grille.
FIGURE B.4.10.1(a) Typical HVAC Velocity Versus Flow
Volume Diagram that Might be Used to Describe Operation of
Supply Register.

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                       ANNEX B                                                   72-347

radiant energy­sensing detectors operate has been divided into   phase. These emissions are uniquely associated with particular
three bands: ultraviolet (UV), visible, or infrared (IR). These  molecular structures. This can result in a flame detector that is
wavelengths are defined with the following wavelength ranges:    very fuel specific.
[3]                                                              B.5.1.5 Effects of Ambient. The choice of radiant energy­
(1) Ultraviolet 0.1­0.35 microns                                 sensing detector is also limited by the effect of ambient condi-
(2) Visible 0.35­0.75 microns                                    tions. The design must take into account the radiant energy
(3) Infrared 0.75­220 microns                                    absorption of the atmosphere, presence of non-fire-related
B.5.1.2 Wavelength. These wavelength ranges correspond to        radiation sources that might cause nuisance alarms, the electro-
the quantum-mechanical interaction between matter and            magnetic energy of the spark, ember, or fire to be detected, the
energy. Photonic interactions with matter can be characterized   distance from the fire source to the sensor, and characteristics
by wavelength as shown in Table B.5.1.2.                         of the sensor.

B.5.1.3 Photon Transfer. When a fuel molecule is oxidized in                         B.5.1.5.1 Ambient Non-Fire Radiators. Most ambients contain
the combustion process, the combustion intermediate mole-                            non-fire radiators that can emit at wavelengths used by radiant
cule must lose energy to become a stable molecular species.                          energy­sensing detectors for fire detection. The designer
                                                                                     should make a thorough evaluation of the ambient to identify
Y This energy is emitted as a photon with a unique wavelength                        radiators that have the potential for producing unwarranted
L determined by the following equation:                                              alarm response from radiant energy­sensing detectors. Since
                     ON e =hc                                                        radiant energy­sensing detectors use electronic components
                                     [B.5.1.3]                                       that can act as antennas, the evaluation should include radio
                                                                                     band, microwave, infrared, visible, and ultraviolet sources.
E where:                                                                             B.5.1.5.2 Ambient Radiant Absorbance. The medium through
                                                                                     which radiant energy passes from fire source to detector has a
    e = energy (joules)                                                              finite transmittance. Transmittance is usually quantified by its
                                                                                     reciprocal, absorbance. Absorbance by atmospheric species
S h = Planck's constant (6.63E-23 joule-sec)                                         varies with wavelength. Gaseous species absorb at the same
                                                                                     wavelengths that they emit. Particulate species can transmit,
    c = speed of light (m/sec)                                                       reflect, or absorb radiant emission, and the proportion that is
                                                                                     absorbed is expressed as the reciprocal of its emissivity, .
U  = wavelength (microns)                                                            B.5.1.5.3 Contamination of Optical Surfaces. Radiant energy
 L [1.0 joule = 5.0345E+18(), where  is measured in                                  can be absorbed or reflected by materials contaminating the
                                                                                     optical surfaces of radiant energy­sensing detectors. The
   microns.]                                                                         designer should evaluate the potential for surface contamina-
                                                                                     tion and implement provisions for keeping these surfaces
A B.5.1.4 Type of Detector. The choice of the type of radiant                        clean. Extreme caution must be employed when considering
                                                                                     the use of surrogate windows. Common glass, acrylic, and other
   energy­sensing detector to use is determined by the type of                       glazing materials are opaque at the wavelengths used by most
                                                                                     flame detectors and some spark/ember detectors. Placing a
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U emissions that are expected from the fire radiator.              window between the detector and the hazard area that has not
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} B.5.1.4.1 Fuels that produce a flame, a stream of combustiblebeen listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory
                                                                                     (NRTL) for use with the detector in question is a violation of
   or flammable gases involved in the combustion reaction with a                     the detector listing and will usually result in a system that is
   gaseous oxidizer, radiate quantum emissions. These fuels                          incapable of detecting a fire in the hazard area.
                                                                                     B.5.1.5.4 Design Factors. These factors are important for
IV include flammable gases, flammable liquids, combustible                           several reasons. First, a radiation sensor is primarily a line-of-
                                                                                     sight device, and must "see" the fire source. If there are other
   liquids, and solids that are burning with a flame.                                radiation sources in the area, or if atmospheric conditions are
                                                                                     such that a large fraction of the radiation could be absorbed in
D B.5.1.4.2 Fuels that are oxidized in the solid phase or radia-                     the atmosphere, the type, location, and spacing of the sensors
                                                                                     could be affected. In addition, the sensors react to specific
   tors that are emitting due to their internal temperature (sparks                  wavelengths, and the fuel must emit radiation in the sensor's
                                                                                     bandwidth. For example, an infrared detection device with a
IN and embers) radiate Planckian emissions. These fuels include                      single sensor tuned to 4.3 microns (the CO2 emission peak)

   carbonaceous fuels such as coal, charcoal, wood, and cellulosic
   fibers that are burning without an established flame, as well as

R metals that have been heated due to mechanical impacts and

   friction.

OB.5.1.4.3 Almost all combustion events produce Planckian

   emissions, emissions that are the result of the thermal energy

Fin the fuel mass. Therefore, spark/ember detectors that are
   designed to detect these emissions are not fuel specific. Flame
   detectors detect quantum emissions that are the result of
   changes in molecular structure and energy state in the gas

Table B.5.1.2 Wavelength Ranges                                                      cannot be expected to detect a non-carbon-based fire. Further-
                                                                                     more, the sensor needs to be able to respond reliably within
                                                                                     the required time, especially when activating an explosion
                                                                                     suppression system or similar fast-response extinguishing or
Wavelength                       Photonic Interaction                                control system.
                                                                                     B.5.1.6 Detector Response Model. The response of radiant
     < 50 micron     Gross molecular translations                                    energy­sensing detectors is modeled with a modified inverse
 50 µm <  < 1.0 µm   Molecular vibrations and rotations                              square relationship as shown in the following equation [5]:
1.0 µm <  < 0.05 µm  Valence electron bond vibrations
0.3 µm <  < 0.05 µm  Electron stripping and
                     recombinations

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-348                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                       [B.5.1.6]  B.5.2.2.1 Compute the surface area the design fire is expected
                                                                  to occupy from the correlations in Table B.2.3.2.6.2(a) or other
              S = kPe -d                                          sources. Use the flame height correlation to determine the
                     d2                                           height of the flame plume:

where:                                                                                                                               [B.5.2.2.1a]
S = radiant power reaching the detector (W or Btu/sec) suffi-
     cient to produce alarm response                                           h        0.182  (kQ      2  /  5      (for SI units)
                                                                                  f
                                                                                     =                 )

k = proportionality constant for the detector                     or
P = radiant power emitted by the fire (W or Btu/sec)
 = extinction coefficient of air at detector operating wave-
     lengths
d = distance between the fire and the detector (m or ft)                                                                             [B.5.2.2.1b]

   This relationship models the fire as a point source radiator,      h        0.584    (kQ   2  /  5     (for inch-pound units)
                                                                         f
Y of uniform radiant output per steradian, some distance (d)                =                )

from the detector. This relationship also models the effect of    where:
                                                                  hf = flame height (m or ft)
L absorbance by the air between the fire and the detector as      Q = heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
                                                                  k = wall effect factor. Where there are no nearby walls, use k =
being a uniform extinction function. The designer must verify
                                                                        1; where the fuel package is near a wall, use k = 2; where
N that these modeling assumptions are valid for the application         the fuel package is in a corner, use k = 4
                                                                     Determine the minimum anticipated flame area width (wf).
in question.                                                      Where flammable or combustible liquids are the fuel load and
                                                                  are unconfined, model the fuel as a circular pool. Compute the
O B.5.2 Design of Flame Detection Systems.                        radiating area (Ar) using the following equation:
E B.5.2.1 Detector Sensitivity. Flame detector sensitivity is tradi-
                                                                                                                                     [B.5.2.2.1c]
tionally quantified as the distance at which the unit can detect
                                                                                                 A               1
S a fire of given size. The fire most commonly used by the NRTLs                                    r
                                                                                                       =  2h     w
in North America is a 0.9 m2 (1.0 ft2) fire fueled with regular
                                                                                                                 ff
U grade, unleaded gasoline. Some special-purpose detectors are

evaluated using 150 mm (6 in.) diameter fires fueled with

L isopropanol.
A B.5.2.1.1 This means of sensitivity determination does not

take into account that flames can best be modeled as an opti-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U cally dense radiator in which radiant emissions radiated from

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} the far side of the flame toward the detector are re-absorbed by

ID the flame. Consequently, the radiated power from a flame is

not proportional to the area of the fire but to the flame silhou-
ette, and hence to the height and width of the fire.

IV B.5.2.1.2 Because flame detectors detect the radiant emissions

produced during the formation of flame intermediates and

D products, the radiant intensity produced by a flame at a given

wavelength is proportional to the relative concentration of the

IN specific intermediate or product in the flame and that portion

of the total heat release rate of the fire resulting from the
formation of that specific intermediate or product. This means
that the response of a detector can vary widely as different fuels

R are used to produce a fire of the same surface area and flame

width.

O B.5.2.1.3 Many flame detectors are designed to detect specific
Fproducts such as water (2.5 microns) and CO2 (4.35 microns).
                                                                  where:
                                                                  Ar = radiating area (m2 or ft2)
                                                                  hf = flame height (m or ft)
                                                                  wf = flame width (m or ft)
                                                                  B.5.2.2.2 The radiant power output of the fire to the detector
                                                                  can be approximated as being proportional to the radiating
                                                                  area (Ar) of the flame:

                                                                                                                                     [B.5.2.2.2]

                                                                                                       P  =   cA
                                                                                                                  r

                                                                  where:                                                             Equation
                                                                  Ar = radiating area (m2 or ft2)
                                                                   c = power per unit area proportionality constant
                                                                  P = radiated power (W or Btu/sec)
                                                                  B.5.2.3 Calculate Detector Sensitivity. Using
These detectors cannot be used for fires that do not produce      B.5.2.2.1a or B.5.2.2.1b compute the radiating area of the test
these products as a result of the combustion process.             fire used by the NRTL in the listing process (At). The radiant
                                                                  power output of the test fire to the detector in the listing proc-
B.5.2.1.4 Many flame detectors use time variance of the radi-     ess is proportional to the radiating area (At) of the listing test
ant emissions of a flame to distinguish between non-fire radia-   flame.
tors and a flame. Where a deflagration hazard exists, the
designer must determine the sample time period for such  B.5.2.4 Calculate Detector Response to Design Fire. Because
flame detectors and how such detectors will operate in the        the sensitivity of a flame detector is fixed during the manufac-
event of a deflagration of fuel vapor or fuel gases.
                                                                  turing process, the following is the relationship that determines
                                                                  the radiant power reaching the detector sufficient to produce
B.5.2.2 Design Fire. Using the process outlined in                an alarm response:
Section B.2, determine the fire size (kW or Btu/sec) at which
detection must be achieved.

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                            ANNEX B                                                                72-349

                                                                        B.5.2.5.3 When the correction for angular displacement is
                                                                        expressed as a normalized sensitivity (fire size increment), the
                                                                        correction must be made to Ar, prior to calculating response
                                                            [B.5.2.4a]  distance (d).
                                                                        B.5.2.6 Corrections for Fuel. Most flame detectors exhibit
                                   S  =  kcA e -d                       some level of fuel specificity. Some manufacturers provide "fuel
                                               t

                                              d2

where:                                                                  factors" that relate detector response performance to a fire of
S = radiant power reaching the detector (W or Btu/sec) suffi-           one fuel to the response performance of a benchmark fuel.
                                                                        Other manufacturers provide performance criteria for a list of
      cient to produce alarm response                                   specific fuels. Unless the manufacturer's published instruc-
 k = proportionality constant for the detector                          tions, bearing the listing mark, contain explicit instructions for
At = radiant area of the listing test fire (m2 or ft2)                  the application of the detector for fuels other than those used
  = extinction coefficient of air at detector operating wave-           in the listing process, the unit cannot be deemed listed for use
                                                                        in hazard areas containing fuels different from those employed
      lengths                                                           in the listing process.
d = distance between the fire and the detector during the list-         B.5.2.6.1 When the fuel factor correction is expressed as a
                                                                        detection distance reduction, the correction should be applied
 Y ing fire test (m or ft)                                              after the detection distance has been computed.
                                                                        B.5.2.6.2 When the fuel factor correction is expressed as a
 c = emitted power per unit flame radiating area correlation            function of normalized fire size, the correction must be made
                                                                        prior to calculating detection distance.
L Because the sensitivity of the detector is constant over the          B.5.2.7 Atmospheric Extinction Factors.
N range of ambients for which it is listed:                             B.5.2.7.1 Because the atmosphere is not infinitely transmittent
                                   E O S                                at any wavelength, all flame detectors are affected by atmos-
                                                            [B.5.2.4b]  pheric absorption to some degree. The effect of atmospheric
                                                                        extinction on the performance of flame detectors is deter-
                                                                        mined to some degree by the wavelengths used for sensing and
                                                                        the detector electronic architecture. Values for the atmos-
                                                                        pheric extinction coefficient () should be obtained from the
                                                                        detector manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                                        B.5.2.7.2 The numerical value of  can be determined experi-
                                                                        mentally for any flame detector. The detector must be tested
                                                                        with two different sized test fires to determine the distance at
                                                                        which each of the fires can be detected by the detector in ques-
                                                                        tion. The larger the difference between the sizes of the flaming
                                                                        fires, the more precise the determination of . Ideally, one test
                                                                        fire would be approximately 4 times the heat release rate
                                                                        (surface area) of the other. The data are then used in the rela-
                                                                        tion:
S where:                              =  kcA e -d
U S = radiant power reaching the detector (W or Btu/sec) suffi-r
                                            d 2
        cient to produce alarm response
   k = proportionality constant for the detector

L c = emitted power per unit flame radiating area correlation
A Ar = radiant area of the design fire (m2 or ft2)

    = extinction coefficient of air at detector operating wave-

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U lengths

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} d = distance between the design fire and the detector (m or

 ID ft)

     Therefore, use the following equation to determine the

IV following:
D kcA e -d
      t
INd2                                                        [B.5.2.4c]

                                              kcA e     -d
                                                     r
                                           =
                                                  d 2
OR d2A e-d
To solve for d use the following equation:                                                                                    [B.5.2.7.2]

                                                                        ( ) ( ) ln                                          
                                                                        =       d 2A                             / d2A
                                                                                  12                                    21

                                                            [B.5.2.4d]          d -d
                                                                                21
F
                                       r      1 / 2  =  d               where:
                                                                        "1" = subscripts referring to the first test fire
                                   A e -d     
                                      t

                                                                        "2" = subscripts referring to the second test fire
                                                                        d = maximum distance between the flame detector and the
This relation is solved iteratively for d, the distance at which        fire at which the fire is detected
the detector can detect the design fire.
                                                                        A = the radiating area of the test fire as determined per
B.5.2.5 Correction for Angular Displacement.                                 B.5.2.2.1

B.5.2.5.1 Most flame detectors exhibit a loss of sensitivity as            This relation allows the designer to determine the value of 
the fire is displaced from the optical axis of the detector. This       for detectors that are already installed or for those that were
correction to the detector sensitivity is shown as a polar graph        evaluated for listing before the inclusion of the requirement
in Figure A.17.8.3.2.3.                                                 for the publishing of  appeared in ANSI/FM-3260.

B.5.2.5.2 When the correction for angular displacement is
expressed as a reduction of normalized detection distance, the
correction is made to detection distance (d).

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-350                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

B.5.3 Design of Spark/Ember Detection Systems.

B.5.3.1 Design Fire. Using the process outlined in                                                                   [B.5.3.3b]
Section B.2, determine the fire size (kW or Btu/sec) at which
detection must be achieved.
B.5.3.1.1 The quantification of the fire is generally derived                             S = kP e -d 
                                                                                                 d 2

from the energy investment per unit time sufficient to propa-         where:
gate combustion of the combustible particulate solids in the
fuel stream. Because energy per unit time is power, expressed         S = radiant power reaching the detector (W or Btu/sec) suffi-
in watts, the fire size criterion is generally expressed in watts or  cient to produce alarm response
milliwatts.                                                           k = proportionality constant for the detector
                                                                      P = radiant power from the design fire (W or Btu/sec)
B.5.3.1.2 The radiant emissions, integrated over all wave-              = the extinction coefficient of air at detector operating
lengths, from a non-ideal Planckian radiator is expressed with
the following form of the Stefan­Boltzmann equation:                        wavelengths
                                                                      d = the distance between the design fire and the detector (m2

                                                                            or ft2)
                                                                         Therefore, use the following equation to solve for
              LY P = AT4
N where:                                        [B.5.3.1.2]
O P = radiant power (W or Btu/sec)
                                                                                                                     [B.5.3.3c]
 = emissivity, a material property expressed as a fraction
     between 0 and 1.0                                                                 kPe -d = kP e -d 
                                                                                          d2   d 2
E A = area of radiator (m2 or ft2)
                                                                      To solve for d,
 = Stefan­Boltzmann constant 5.67E-8 W/m2K4
                                                                                                                     [B.5.3.3d]
S T = temperature (K or R)
U B.5.3.1.3 This models the spark or ember as a point source                           d  =    d 2P e -d  1/2
                                                                                                Pe -d     
radiator.                                                                                                 

L B.5.3.2 Fire Environment. Spark/ember detectors are usually

used on pneumatic conveyance system ducts to monitor

A combustible particulate solids as they flow past the detector(s).

This environment puts large concentrations of combustible

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U particulate solids between the fire and the detector. A value for

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  must be computed for the monitored environment. The

ID simplifying assumption that absorbance at visible levels is equal

to or greater than that at infrared wavelengths yields conserva-

IV tive designs and is used.

B.5.3.3 Calculate Detector Response to Design Fire. Because

D the sensitivity of a spark/ember detector is fixed during the

manufacturing process,
              R INS = kPe-d                                              This relation is solved iteratively for d, the distance at which
                                   d2           [B.5.3.3a]            the detector can detect the design fire.
                                                                      B.5.3.4 Correction for Angular Displacement.
O where:                                                              B.5.3.4.1 Most spark/ember detectors exhibit a loss of sensitiv-
FS = radiant power reaching the detector (W or Btu/sec) suffi-        ity as the fire is displaced from the optical axis of the detector.
                                                                      This correction to the detector sensitivity is shown as a polar
                                                                      graph in Figure A.17.8.3.2.3.
                                                                      B.5.3.4.2 When the correction for angular displacement is
                                                                      expressed as a reduction of normalized detection distance, the
                                                                      correction is made to detection distance (d).
                                                                      B.5.3.4.3 When the correction for angular displacement is
                                                                      expressed as a normalized sensitivity (fire size increment), the
                                                                      correction must be made to P prior to calculating response
                                                                      distance (d).
                                                                      B.5.3.5 Corrections for Fuel. Because spark/ember detectors
                                                                      respond to Planckian emission in the near infrared portion of
                                                                      the spectrum, corrections for fuels are rarely necessary.
cient to produce alarm response
k = proportionality constant for the detector
P = radiant power emitted by test spark (W or Btu/sec)                B.6 Computer Fire Models. Several special application
 = extinction coefficient of air at detector operating wave-          computer models are available to assist in the design and analy-
                                                                      sis of both heat detectors (e.g., fixed-temperature, rate-of-rise,
     lengths                                                          sprinklers, fusible links) and smoke detectors. These computer
d = distance between the fire and the detector during the list-       models typically run on personal computers and are available
                                                                      from NIST website http://fire.nist.gov.
     ing fire test (m2 or ft2)

   Because the sensitivity of the detector is constant over the
range of ambients for which it is listed,

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX B                                                                                                                             72-351

B.6.1 DETACT -- T2. DETACT -- T2 (DETector ACTuation                            (4) Beyler, C. "A Design Method for Flaming Fire Detec-
                                                                                tion," Fire Technology, Vol. 20, No. 4, Nov. 1984.
-- time squared) calculates the actuation time of heat detectors
(fixed-temperature and rate-of-rise) and sprinklers to user-
specified fires that grow with the square of time. DETACT -- T2                    (5) DiNenno, P., ed. Chapter 31, SFPE Handbook of Fire Protec-
assumes the detector is located in a large compartment with an                  tion Engineering, by R. Schifiliti, Sept. 1988.

unconfined ceiling, where there is no accumulation of hot                       (6) Evans, D. D. and Stroup, D. W. "Methods to Calculate
gases at the ceiling. Thus, heating of the detector is only from                Response Time of Heat and Smoke Detectors Installed Below
the flow of hot gases along the ceiling. Input data include H, 0,               Large Unobstructed Ceilings," (NBSIR 85-3167) (Feb. 1985,
RTI, Ts, S, and . The program calculates the heat release rate                  issued Jul. 1986). National Institute of Standards and Technol-
at detector activation, as well as the time to activation.                      ogy (formerly National Bureau of Standards), Center for Fire
                                                                                Research, Gaithersburg, MD 20889.
B.6.2 DETACT -- QS. DETACT -- QS (DETector ACTuation
   -- quasi-steady) calculates the actuation time of heat detectors                (7) Heskestad, G. "Characterization of Smoke Entry and
   and sprinklers in response to fires that grow according to a                 Response for Products-of-Combustion Detectors" Proceedings,
   user-defined fire. DETACT -- QS assumes the detector is loca-                7th International Conference on Problems of Automatic Fire
                                                                                Detection, Rheinish-Westfalischen Technischen Hochschule
Y ted in a large compartment with unconfined ceilings, where                    Aachen (Mar. 1975).

   there is no accumulation of hot gases at the ceiling. Thus, heat-               (8) Heskestad, G. "Investigation of a New Sprinkler Sensitiv-
                                                                                ity Approval Test: The Plunge Test," FMRC Tech. Report 22485,
L ing of the detector is only from the flow of hot gases along the              Factory Mutual Research Corporation, 1151 Providence Turn-
                                                                                pike, Norwood, MA 02062.
   ceiling. Input data include H, 0, RTI, Ts, the distance of the
                                                                                   (9) Heskestad, G. and Delichatsios, M. A. "The Initial
N detector from the fire's axis, and heat release rates at user-                Convective Flow in Fire: Seventeenth Symposium on Combus-
                                                                                tion," The Combustion Institute, Pittsburgh, PA (1979).
   specified times. The program calculates the heat release rate at
                                                                                   (10) Heskestad, G. and Delichatsios, M. A. "Environments of
O detector activation, the time to activation, and the ceiling jet              Fire Detectors -- Phase 1: Effect of Fire Size, Ceiling Height
                                                                                and Material," Measurements Vol. I (NBS-GCR-77-86), Analysis
   temperature.                                                                 Vol. II (NBS-GCR-77-95). National Technical Information Serv-
                                                                                ice (NTIS), Springfield, VA 22151.
 E DETACT -- QS can also be found in HAZARD I, FIRE-
                                                                                   (11) Heskestad, G. and Delichatsios, M. A. "Update: The
   FORM, FPETOOL. A comprehensive evaluation of DETACT                          Initial Convective Flow in Fire," Fire Safety Journal, Vol. 15,
                                                                                No. 5, 1989.
S QS can be found in the SFPE Engineering Guide: Evaluation of the
                                                                                   (12) International Organization for Standardization, Audible
   Computer Fire Model DETACT QS. This guide provides informa-                  Emergency Evacuation Signal, ISO 8201, 1987.

U tion on the theoretical basis, mathematical robustness, sensitiv-                (13) Klote, J. and Milke, J. "Principles of Smoke Manage-
                                                                                ment," American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air
   ity of output to input, and an evaluation of the predictive                  Conditioning Engineers, Atlanta, GA, 2002.

L ability of the model.                                                            (14) Lawson, J. R., Walton, W. D., and Twilley, W. H. "Fire
A B.6.3 LAVENT. LAVENT (Link Actuated VENT) calculates                          Performance of Furnishings as Measured in the NBS Furniture
                                                                                Calorimeter, Part 1," (NBSIR 83-2787) (Aug. 1983). National
   the actuation time of sprinklers and fusible link-actuated ceil-             Institute of Standards and Technology (formerly National
                                                                                Bureau of Standards), Center for Fire Research, Gaithersburg,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U ing vents in compartment fires with draft curtains. Inputs  MD 20889.

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} include the ambient temperature, compartment size, thermo-   (15) Morton, B. R., Taylor, Sir Geoffrey, and Turner, J. S.
                                                                                "Turbulent Gravitational Convection from Maintained and
ID physical properties of the ceiling, fire location, size and growth           Instantaneous Sources," Proc. Royal Society A, 234, 1­23, 1956.

   rate, ceiling vent area and location, RTI, and temperature
   rating of the fusible links. Outputs of the model include the

IV temperatures and release times of the links, the areas of the

   vents that have opened, the radial temperature distribution at
   the ceiling, and the temperature and height of the upper layer.

D B.6.4 JET is a single-compartment, two-zone computer model.
IN It has been designed to calculate the centerline temperature of

   the plume, the ceiling jet temperature, and the ceiling jet
   velocity. JET can model ceiling-mounted fusible links, as well as
   link-actuated ceiling vents. JET evolved from the model plat-

R form used for LAVENT and contains many of the same

   features. Some of the major differences between them include

Othe ceiling jet temperature and velocity algorithms, the fusible
Flink algorithm, and the use of a variable radiative fraction. [57]
 B.6.5 References.                                                                 (16) Schifiliti, R. "Use of Fire Plume Theory in the Design
       (1) Alpert, R. "Ceiling Jets," Fire Technology, Aug. 1972.               and Analysis of Fire Detector and Sprinkler Response," Master's
       (2) "Evaluating Unsprinklered Fire Hazards," SFPE Technology             Thesis, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Center for Firesafety
                                                                                Studies, Worcester, MA, 1986.
   Report 83-2.
       (3) Babrauskas, V., Lawson, J. R., Walton, W. D., and Twilley,              (17) Title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, Communications
                                                                                Act of 1934 Amended.
   W. H. "Upholstered Furniture Heat Release Rates Measured
   with a Furniture Calorimeter," (NBSIR 82-2604) (Dec. 1982).                     (18) Schifiliti, R. and Pucci, W. "Fire Detection Modelling,
   National Institute of Standards and Technology (formerly                     State of the Art," 6 May, 1996 sponsored by the Fire Detection
   National Bureau of Standards), Center for Fire Research,                     Institute, Bloomfield, CT.
   Gaithersburg, MD 20889.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-352        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

(19) Forney, G., Bukowski, R., Davis, W. "Field Modelling:                        (34c) Keski-Rahkonen, "Revisiting Modeling of Fluid Pene-
Effects of Flat Beamed Ceilings on Detector and Sprinkler       tration into Smoke Detectors," AUBE 2001.
Response," Technical Report, Year 1. International Fire Detec-     (34d) Bjoerkman et al. "Determination of Dynamic Model
tion Research Project, Fire Protection Research Foundation,
Quincy, MA. October, 1993.                                      Parameters of Smoke Detectors," Fire Safety Journal, No 37,
                                                                pp. 395­407, 2002.
   (20) Davis, W., Forney, G., Bukowski, R. "Field Modelling:
Simulating the Effect of Sloped Beamed Ceilings on Detector        (34e) Keski-Rahkonen, "A New Model for Time Lag of
and Sprinkler Response," Year 1. International Fire Detection   Smoke Detectors," International Collaborative Project to Evalu-
Research Project Technical Report, Fire Protection Research     ate Fire Models for Nuclear Power Plant Application, Gaithers-
Foundation, Quincy, MA. October, 1994.                          burg, MD May 2002.

   (21) Brozovski, E. "A Preliminary Approach to Siting Smoke                        (35) UL 268, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm Signal-
Detectors Based on Design Fire Size and Detector Aerosol                          ing Systems, Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Northbrook, IL,
Entry Lag Time," Master's Thesis, Worcester Polytechnic,                          2009.
Worcester, MA, 1989.
                                                                                     (36) Deal, Scott. "Technical Reference Guide for FPEtool
Y (22) Cote, A. NFPA Fire Protection Handbook, 20th edition,                      Version 3.2," NISTIR 5486, National Institute for Standards and
L National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 2008.                         Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce, Gaithersburg,
N (23) Tewarson, A., "Generation of Heat and Chemical                             MD, Aug. 1994.

Compounds in Fires," SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineer-                      (37) Mowrer, F. W. "Lag Times Associated with Detection
ing, Second Edition, NFPA and SFPE, 1995.                                         and Suppression," Fire Technology, Vol. 26, No. 3, pp. 244­265,
                                                                                  1990.
O (24) Hollman, J. P. Heat Transfer, McGraw-Hill, New York,
                                                                                     (38) Newman, J. S. "Principles for Fire Detection," Fire Tech-
1976.                                                                             nology, Vol. 24, No. 2, pp. 116­127, 1988.

E (25) Custer, R. L. P., and Meacham, B. "Introduction to                            (39) Custer, R., Meacham, B., Wood, C. "Performance Based
S Performance Based Fire Safety," SFPE, 1997.                                     Design Techniques for Detection and Special Suppression
U (26) Schifiliti, R. P., Meacham B., Custer, R. L. P. "Design of                 Applications," Proceedings of the SFPE Engineering Seminars
                                                                                  on Advances in Detection and Suppression Technology, 1994.
Detection Systems," SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering.
                                                                                     (40) SFPE Engineering Guide to Performance Based Fire Protec-
L (27) Marrion, C. "Correction Factors for the Heat of                            tion, 2nd edition, SFPE, Gaithersburg, MD, 2007.

Combustion in NFPA 72," Appendix B, Fire Protection Engi-                            (41) SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering, Fifth
                                                                                  Edition, SFPE, Gaithersburg, MD, 2016.
A neering, SFPE, 1998.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (28) Marrion, C. "Designing and Analyzing the Response of        (42) Drysdale, Dougal, An Introduction to Fire Dynamics, John
                                                                                  Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 1998, ISBN 0 471 90613 1, Second
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Detection Systems: An Update to Previous Correlations," 1988.Edition.

ID (29) Custer, R. and Bright, R. "Fire Detection: The State-of-                     (43) Nam S., Donovan L.P. and Kim S.G., Establishing Heat
                                                                                  Detectors Thermal Sensitivity Through Bench Scale Tests; Fire
the-Art," NBS Tech. Note 839, National Bureau of Standards,                       Safety Journal, Volume 39, Number 3, 191­215; April 2004.

IV Washington, 1974.                                                                 (44) Nam S., Thermal Response Coefficient TRC of Heat
   (30) Meacham, Brian J. "Characterization of Smoke from                         Detectors and Its Field Applications, Fire Detection and
                                                                                  Research Applications Symposium, NFPA Research Founda-
D Burning Materials for the Evaluation of Light Scattering-Type                   tion, January 2003.

Smoke Detector Response," MS Thesis, WPI Center for Firesaf-                         (45) Nam S., Performance-Based Heat Detector Spacing,
                                                                                  Interflam 2004, pp. 883­892.
IN ety Studies, Worcester, MA, 1991.
   (31) Delichatsios, M. A. "Categorization of Cable Flammabil-                      (46) Geiman, J. A., "Evaluation of Smoke Detector Response
ity, Detection of Smoldering, and Flaming Cable Fires," Interim                   Estimation Methods," Master of Science Thesis, University of

R Report, Factory Mutual Research Corporation, Norwood, MA,

NP-1630, Nov. 1980.

O (32) Heskestad, G. FMRC Serial Number 21017, Factory
FMutual Research Corp., Norwood, MA, 1974.
   (33) Marrion, C. E. "Lag Time Modeling and Effects of Ceil-  Maryland, College Park, MD, December 2003.
ing Jet Velocity on the Placement of Optical Smoke Detectors,"     (47) Projected Beam Smoke Detectors -- More Than Just a
MS Thesis, WPI Center for Firesafety Studies, Worcester, MA,
1989.                                                           Substitute for Spot Detectors, Fire Protection Engineering,
                                                                Summer 2004, SFPE.
   (34) Kokkala, M. et al. "Measurements of the Characteristic
Lengths of Smoke Detectors," Fire Technology, Vol. 28, No. 2,      (48) Geiman, J. A., and Gottuck, D.T., "Alarm Thresholds for
National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 1992.         Smoke Detector Modeling," Fire Safety Science -- Proceeding of the
                                                                Seventh International Symposium, 2003, pp. 197­208.
   (34a) Yamauchi et al. "A Calculation Method for Predicting
Heat and Smoke Detector's Response."                               (49) The SFPE Code Official's Guide to Performance-based Design
                                                                Review and Analysis of Buildings, Society of Fire Protection Engi-
   (34b) Cleary et al. "Particulate Entry Lag in Spot Type                        neers, Bethesda, MD, 2004.
Smoke Detectors," IAFSS Proceedings, Boston, MA 2000.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                ANNEX B                                                                            72-353

(50) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, National Fire Protection  Table B.7 Continued
Association, Quincy, MA, 2009.
                                                                        g = gravitational constant (9.81 m/sec2 or
   (51) NFPA 909, Code for the Protection of Cultural Resource Prop-               32 ft/sec2)
erties -- Museums, Libraries, and Places of Worship, National Fire
Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 2010.                              h = Planck's constant (6.63E-23 joule-sec)
                                                                       H = ceiling height or height above fire (m or ft)
                                                                       Hc = convective heat transfer coefficient
   (52) NFPA 914, Code for Fire Protection of Historic Structures,                   (kW/m2·°C or Btu/ft2·sec·°F)
National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 2010.

   (53) Performance-based Building Design Concepts, Interna-           Hc = heat of combustion (kJ/mol)
tional Code Council, Washington DC, 2004.                                 hf = flame height (m or ft)
                                                                         Hf = heat of formation (kJ/mol)
   (54) Extreme Event Mitigation In Buildings -- Analysis and             L = characteristic length for a given
   Design, Meacham, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy
   MA, 2006.                                                                             detector design
                                                                             k = detector constant, dimensionless
 Y (55) Geiman, Gottuk, and Milke, "Evaluation of Smoke                     m = mass (kg or lbm)
                                                                            p = positive exponent
   Detector Response Estimation Methods: Optical Density,                   P = radiant power (watts or Btu/sec)
                                                                             q = heat release rate density per unit floor area
L Temperature Rise and Velocity at Alarm," Journal of Fire Protec-
                                                                                        (watts/m2 or Btu/sec·ft2)
   tion Engineering, 2006.                                                  Q = heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
                                                                           Qc = convection portion of fire heat release rate (kW
 N (56) Su et al., "Kemano Fire Studies -- Part 1: Response of
O Residential Smoke Alarms," Research Report 108, NRCC, April                           or Btu/sec)
                                                                        Qcond = heat transferred by conduction
   2003.
                                                                                         (kW or Btu/sec)
 E (57) Davis, W., The Zone Model Jet, "A Model for the Predic-         Qconv = heat transferred by convection

   tion of Detector Activation and Gas Temperature in the Pres-                          (kW or Btu/sec)
                                                                           Qd = threshold fire size at which response must occur
S ence of a Smoke Layer," NISTIR 6324, NIST, May 1999.                   Qrad = heat transferred by radiation
      (58) NFPA 72E, Standard for Automatic Fire Detectors, 1984
                                                                                         (kW or Btu/sec)
U edition.                                                              Qtotal = total heat transfer (kW or Btu/sec)
L B.7 Nomenclature. The nomenclature used in Annex B is                  QCR = critical heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
                                                                         QDO = design heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
   defined in Table B.7.
                                                                          Qm = maximum heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
A  Table B.7 Nomenclature                                                  Qp = predicted heat release rate (kW or Btu/sec)
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8}  = fire intensity coefficient    QT = threshold heat release rate at response

                          (kW/sec2 or Btu/sec3)                                          (kW or Btu/sec)
             A = area (m2 or ft2)                                            r = radial distance from fire plume axis (m or ft)
                                                                            0 = density of ambient air [kg/m3 or lb/ft3
  IV A0 = g/(CpTa) [m4/(sec2kJ) or ft4/(sec2Btu)]
                                                                                        (1.1 kg/m3)]
            Ar = radiating area (m2 or ft2)                              RTI = response time index (m12sec12 or

  D At = radiating area of test fire                                                     ft12 sec12)
                                                                            S = spacing of detectors or sprinkler heads
             C = specific heat of detector element
                                                                                         (m or ft)
    IN (kJ/kg·°C or Btu/lbm·°F)                                             S = radiant energy
                                                                           tDO = time at which the design objective heat release
              c = speed of light (m/sec or ft/sec)
            Cp = specific heat of air [kJ/(kg K) or Btu/lbm R                           rate (QDO) is reached (seconds)
                                                                           tCR = time at which the critical heat release rate (QCR)
                         (1.040 kJ/kg K)]
                                                                                        is reached (seconds)
  RDm = mass optical density (m2/g or ft2/lb)                                t = time (seconds)
             d = distance between fire and radiant energy­                  tc = critical time -- time at which fire would reach a

 O sensing detector                                                                     heat release rate of 1055 kW (1000 Btu/sec)
F d = distance between fire and detector                                                (seconds)
                                                                            td = time to detector response
    d(Du)/dt = rate of increase of optical density outside the              tg = fire growth time to reach 1055 kW
                         detector                                                       (1000 Btu/sec) (seconds)
                                                                            tr = response time (seconds)
             D = 0.146 + 0.242r/H                                      trespond = time available, or needed, for response to an
           t = change in time (seconds)                                                 alarm condition (seconds)
          T = increase above ambient in temperature of gas

                         surrounding a detector (°C or °F)
           td = increase above ambient in temperature of a

                         detector (°C or °F)
                  = change in reduced gas temperature
          t *
p                                                                      tv = virtual time of origin (seconds)
                                                                       t2f = arrival time of heat front (for p = 2 power law
e = energy (joules or Btu)
f = functional relationship                                                        fire) at a point r/H (seconds)
                                                                                                                                             (continues)
                                (continues)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-354                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

 Table B.7 Continued                                             Table B.7 Continued

        t*    = reduced arrival time of heat front (for p = 2   uc = critical velocity
         2f   power law fire) at a point r/H (seconds)               = reduced gas velocity

              = reduced time                                    U*
                                                                    p

        t*                                                      V = velocity of smoke at detector
         p

        T = temperature (°C or °F)                              wf = flame width (m or ft)
        Ta = ambient temperature (°C or °F)                     Y = defined in equation B.27
        Tc = plume centerline temperature (°C or °F)            z = height above top of fuel package involved (m or
        Td = detector temperature (°C or °F)                           ft)
        Tg = temperature of fire gases (°C or °F)                = wavelength (microns)
        Ts = rated operating temperature of a detector or       Zm = maximum height of smoke rise above fire
                                                                            surface (m or ft)
                                                                 = detector time constant mc/HcA (seconds)
                                                                0 = detector time constant measured at reference

                                                                            velocity u0 (seconds)
                                                                 = emissivity, a material property expressed as a

                                                                            fraction between 0 and 1.0
                   sprinkler (°C or °F)            (continues)
      u0 = instantaneous velocity of fire gases

                    (m/sec or ft/sec)

F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD4N7BLCY8} u = velocity(m/secorft/sec)

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                             ANNEX C                                                                                           72-355

Annex C System Performance and Design Guide                                                    to building security and operating personnel, supervisory and
                                                                                               management personnel, and building occupants. Consider the
This annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document                             need for predetermined messages, single- or multiple-channel
but is included for informational purposes only.                                               communications systems, and coordination of communications

C.1 Scope. The requirements of the protected premises chap-                                    system coverage and zoning with building subdivisions, includ-
ter (Chapter 23) provide for minimum levels of protection for                                  ing smoke compartments and automatic suppression system
fire alarm systems to protect life and property, regardless of the                             coverage and zoning. Consider the need for multiple languages
building characteristics, contents, or use. This System Perform-                               in emergency communications.
   ance and Design Guide provides additional considerations for
   users of the NFAC when planning, designing, and installing                                  C.2.2.1.3 Evacuation/Relocation. Determine the extent to
   protected premises fire alarm systems for buildings that might                              which the emergency egress plan is based on total evacuation,
   be unusual in scale, mission, use, symbolism, or other critical or                          relocation and partial evacuation, areas of rescue assistance
   high-profile characteristics.                                                               and/or defending in place.
                                                                                               C.2.2.1.4 Survivability. Consider means to harden the fire
      This guidance suggests potential system characteristics to                               notification circuits/paths to attack by fire for a period of time
   enhanced system performance for protection of life, mission,                                necessary to notify building operating personnel and occupants
                                                                                               of a fire emergency and/or provide instructions if appropriate.
Y and property in high-profile and other critical buildings,                                   C.2.2.1.5 Control. Fire alarm system control units can be
L including signaling path integrity, redundancies, survivability,                             arranged to actuate other building systems and to condition
                                                                                               passive fire barriers to enhance fire safety in the building.
   backup fire control stations, nonerasable logs, multiple infor-                             C.2.2.1.6 Building Systems. Consider activation or release of
                                                                                               building systems and elements including, but not limited to,
N mation stations, and the benefits of networked and peer-to-                                  closing fire/smoke doors and dampers, recall of elevators,
                                                                                               unlocking stairway doors, activating smoke control systems and
   peer configurations.                                                                        or shut-down fans to prevent recirculation of smoke.
                                                                                               C.2.2.1.7 Fire Scene Operations. Compartmentation, water
O C.2 Building Scale. The size of a building to be protected                                   supply, fire fighter access, and communication links are impor-
                                                                                               tant for manual fire-fighting operations. Fire alarm system
   influences fire alarm system operating characteristics, control                             monitoring, reporting, display, and control functions that
                                                                                               enhance the maintenance and operation of these elements that
E functions, circuit integrity, annunciation, and other factors for                            enhance fire scene operations should be considered in the
                                                                                               design, installation, and maintenance of protected premises
   protection of life, property, or the mission of the building.                               fire alarm systems. An example would be a flashing visual notifi-
                                                                                               cation appliance over the fire department connection.
S C.2.1 Fire Service Response Location(s).                                                     C.2.2.2 External Response.
U C.2.1.1 Location(s). Determine the fire service response loca-                               C.2.2.2.1 Resources Available. Determine the availability and
                                                                                               responsibility of fire service resources. An example of the use
   tion(s) by inquiry to the responding fire department (and                                   of this information might be determining how to stage evacua-
                                                                                               tion.
L building operating personnel, if appropriate).                                               C.2.2.2.2 Time Required. Consider the time required for fire
                                                                                               service response to the building. Consider travel time at various
   C.2.1.2 Quantity. The fire service might desire more than one                               times of day and seasons of year.
                                                                                               C.2.2.2.3 Notification. Determine one or more acceptable
A response location. Building operators might desire redundan-                                 means of automatic and manual notification of the fire service
                                                                                               to initiate response to the building. Consider the extent of
   cies for security or operations under emergency conditions.                                 information that might be transmitted to the responding fire

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} C.2.1.3 Functions. The primary response location is the
ID normally expected location of the fire command center (FCC).

   In general, the fire command center provides information and

IV control functions for the entire building. One or more redun-

   dant or abbreviated fire command centers might be desired for
   security or operations under emergency conditions.

D C.2.1.3.1 Information. Nonprimary response locations might

   be intended to provide annunciation equipment to provide

IN information for the entire building, or for a portion of the

   building associated with the response location.
   C.2.1.3.2 Control. Nonprimary response locations might be

R intended to provide a partial or complete fire command center

   to provide control functions for the entire building, or for a

FOportion of the building associated with the response location.
C.2.2 System Operational Characteristics.                                                      service to enhance response to the building and to provide
                                                                                               incident information prior to its arrival.
C.2.2.1 On-Premises Response. Determine an emergency
response plan considering the requirements of NFAC, local                                      C.2.2.2.4 Evacuation/Relocation. Consider system opera-
codes and regulations, the availability and responsibility of                                  tional characteristics that might enhance coordination of
building operating personnel, and the mobility of occupants.                                   control and direction to building operating personnel and
                                                                                               occupants. Consider means of control and shift in control of
C.2.2.1.1 Investigation. Building security or operating person-                                evacuation or relocation direction from building operating
nel should investigate every alarm signal, and the emergency                                   personnel to fire service command.
response plan might include investigation of initial alarm
signals prior to activating a general alarm or the evacuation or                               C.2.2.2.5 Knowledge of Premises. Harmonize system operat-
relocation of occupants.                                                                       ing characteristics to pre-incident planning with fire service
                                                                                               and building operating and security personnel.
C.2.2.1.2 Communication. Determine appropriate methods
to provide alarm information, and instructions when required,

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                                2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-356        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

C.2.2.2.6 Communications and Control. Provide for fire-              exists. Caution is recommended to secure system history logs
fighter communications through dedicated two-way fire-fighter        when system software changes are made.
communication systems, or consider a means to provide
enhanced operation of fire service radio communications in           C.4.2 Network Configuration. Systems that use digital means
the protected premises.                                              to transfer signal information might provide benefits in econ-
                                                                     omy of installation and distribution of information to multiple
C.3 Premises Mission/Use/Property Protection. The loss of            locations to enable rigorous alarm processing and response.
use or mission of a facility to the effects of accidental fire can   Transmission of digital alarm information to remote locations
have a very significant impact on the community or organiza-         might assist responding personnel by providing incident infor-
tion served by the facility. In such a case, it is appropriate to    mation prior to arrival at the location of the fire.
enhance functional characteristics of the protected premises
system. Considerations include the following:                        C.4.3 Peer to Peer Data Communication. Systems that dupli-
                                                                     cate the operating and history data bases in multiple network
(1) Criticality/Mission Continuity                                   control units provide redundant monitoring and control points
       (a) Community -- Loss of operations of the facility           on a system that can enhance the reliability of the system and
              might affect the community beyond the facility.        the operation of the system during emergency or degraded
                                                                     conditions.
  Y Consider the sensitivity of fire detection and the
  L effectiveness of alarm processing, emergency                                          Annex D Speech Intelligibility
                                                                     This annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document
              response, and fire suppression to minimize effects     but is included for informational purposes only.

  N on the community served due to facility impairment                  Users of Annex D should refer back to the text of NFPA 72
                                                                     to familiarize themselves with the specific requirements for the
              by fire.                                               planning, design, installation, and testing of voice communica-
       (b) Operations                                                tion systems.
                                                                     D.1 Introduction.
  O 1. On-premises -- Fire might result in business                  D.1.1 This annex is intended to provide guidance on the plan-
                      interruption or reduced effectiveness.         ning, design, installation, and testing of voice communication
                                                                     systems. The majority of this annex contains recommendations
  E 2. Elsewhere -- Services provided by the facility                for testing of the intelligibility of voice systems.
                      to remote locations might cease or be          D.1.2 As with most systems, proper system performance is
    S reduced.                                                       related to good planning, design, installation, and mainte-
(2) Life Safety                                                      nance. Similarly, test results are a valuable feedback mechanism
                                                                     for persons planning, designing, and installing systems.
 U (a) Evacuation/Relocation -- Size, distribution, and              D.1.3 This annex describes when, where, and how to test for
  L mobility of the occupant population should be                    speech intelligibility. It is also not the intent of this test proto-
                                                                     col to describe how to interpret results or how to correct
              considered with knowledge of facility emergency        systems or environments that contribute to poor speech intelli-
                                                                     gibility.
  A planning and availability of emergency response                  D.1.4 For occupancies that do not yet exist, the designer
                                                                     should have an understanding of the acoustic characteristics of
              resources to determine the extent to which people      the architectural design, as well as the acoustic performance
                                                                     properties of available loudspeakers. Architecturally, this
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U movement might be managed during a fire inci-    includes the physical size and shape of the space, as well as the
     8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} dent.                                      acoustic properties of the walls, floors, ceilings, and interior
                                                                     furnishings. A proper design analysis can sometimes reveal that
 ID (b) Defend-In-Place -- A protected premises system               an intelligible system is not achievable unless some features of
              might be used to actuate facility fire safety elements
              necessary to defend occupants in place or to
  IV enhance rescue assistance.
(3) Property

 D (a) Value -- Cost, availability, and time required to rees-
              tablish facility contents should be considered when
  IN determining the sensitivity of fire detection and the
              effectiveness of alarm processing, emergency
              response, and fire suppression.
       (b) Replacement -- Availability and time required to

  Rreplace damaged facility contents should be consid-

              ered when determining the sensitivity of fire detec-

  Otion and the effectiveness of alarm processing
F emergency response and fire suppression.
(c) Redundancy -- Duplication of facility contents in                the architectural design are changed. The designer should be
              separate locations might reduce the need for sensi-
              tivity of fire detection or other property protection  prepared to defend such conclusions and, if necessary, refuse
              system capabilities.                                   to certify the installation of such a system. While "hand calcula-
                                                                     tions" and experience work well for simpler installations, more
                                                                     complex designs are frequently better and more cost-effectively
C.4 Protected Premises Signaling System Features.                    analyzed using one of a number of readily available computer-

C.4.1 Event Logs. Computer processor­based systems are               based design programs.
capable of assembling logs of system events by date and time,
including alarm history. Such logs are an important resource in      D.1.5 The designer and the authority having jurisdiction
assessing system performance or malfunctions and in under-           should both be aware that the acoustic performance parame-
standing or reconstructing a fire event after the fact. It is        ters of the chosen loudspeakers, as well as their placement in
imperative that such logs are preserved and protected against        the structure, play a major role in determining how many appli-
deletion until it is affirmed that no further need for a log         ances are necessary for adequate intelligibility. The numerical
                                                                     count of appliances for a given design and protected space

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

          ANNEX D                                                                                                72-357

cannot, by itself, be used to determine the adequacy of the             considered a separate ADS. Physical characteristics such as a
design. Sometimes, the acoustic problems of certain placement           change in ceiling height of more than 20 percent or change in
constraints can be satisfactorily overcome through the careful          acoustical finish, such as carpet in one area and tile in another,
selection of loudspeakers with the requisite performance char-          would require those areas to be treated as separate ADSs. In
acteristics, rather than by increasing their number.                    larger areas there might be noise sources that require a section
D.2 Fundamentals of Test Protocol.                                      to be treated as a separate ADS. Any significant change in ambi-
D.2.1 Measurement Method.                                               ent sound pressure level or frequency might necessitate an area
                                                                        be considered a separate ADS.

D.2.1.1 STI/STIPA.                                                              D.2.3.1.4 In areas of 85 dBA or greater ambient sound pres-
D.2.1.1.1 Where the method for measuring speech intelligibil-                   sure level, meeting the pass/fail criteria for intelligibility might
ity is the Speech Transmission Index (STI), this test protocol                  not be possible and other means of communication might be
                                                                                necessary. So, for example, the space immediately surrounding
   should be followed.                                                          a printing press or other high noise machine might be designa-
   D.2.1.1.2 There are several methods that measure the STI.                    ted as a separate ADS and the design might call for some form
                                                                                of effective notification but not necessarily require the ability to
Y One method common to the emergency communications                             have intelligible voice communication. The aisles or operator's
                                                                                control stations might be separate ADSs where intelligible voice
   system industry uses a test signal referred to as STIPA -- STI-              communication might be desired.
                                                                                D.2.3.1.5 Significant differences in furnishings, for example,
L Public Address.                                                               an area with tables, desks, or low dividers adjacent to an area
N D.2.1.2 Other Methods. Where the method for measuring                         with high shelving, would require separate consideration. The
                                                                                entire desk area could be a single acoustic zone whereas each
   speech intelligibility is the Phonetically Balanced Word test                area between shelving could be a unique zone. Essentially, any
                                                                                noteworthy change in the acoustical environment within an
O (PB), Modified Rhyme Test (MRT), or Speech Intelligibility                    area will mandate consideration of that portion of the area to
                                                                                be treated as an acoustic zone. Hallways and stairwells will typi-
   Index (SII) method, the same methods for determining meas-                   cally be considered as individual acoustic zones.
   urement locations should be used.                                            D.2.3.1.6 Spaces confined by walls with carpeting and acousti-
                                                                                cal ceilings can be deemed to be one ADS. An ADS should be
E D.2.2 References.                                                             an area of consistent size and material. A change of materials
S D.2.2.1 IEC 60268-16, Sound system equipment -- Part 16: Objec-               from carpet to hard tile, the existence of sound sources such as
                                                                                decorative waterfalls, large expanses of glass, and changes in
   tive rating of speech intelligibility by speech transmission index, Inter-   ceiling height are all factors that might separate one ADS from
                                                                                another.
U national Electrotechnical Commission, Geneva, Switz., 22 May                  D.2.3.1.7 Each ADS might require different components and
                                                                                design features to achieve intelligible voice communication.
   2003.                                                                        For example, two ADSs with similar acoustical treatments and
                                                                                noise levels might have different ceiling heights. The ADS with
L D.2.2.2 ISO 7240-19, Fire Detection and Alarm Systems -- Part 19:             the lower ceiling height might require more ceiling-mounted
A Design, Installation, Commissioning and Service of Sound Systems for          loudspeakers to ensure that all listeners are in a direct sound
                                                                                field. See Figure D.2.3.1.7. Other ADSs might benefit from the
   Emergency Purposes, International Organization for Standardiza-              use of alternate loudspeaker technologies such as line arrays to
                                                                                achieve intelligibility.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U tion, Geneva, Switz., 1st edition, 15 Aug 2007.             D.2.3.1.8 An ADS that differs from another because of the
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} D.2.2.3 NEMA Standards Publication SB 50-2008, Emergencyfrequency and level of ambient sound pressure level might
                                                                                require the use of loudspeakers and system components that
   Communications Audio Intelligibility Applications Guide, National            have a wider frequency bandwidth than conventional emer-
   Electrical Manufacturers Association, Rosslyn VA, 2008.                      gency communications equipment. However, designers should

IV D.2.3 Terminology.

   D.2.3.1 Acoustically Distinguishable Space (ADS).

D D.2.3.1.1 An acoustically distinguishable space (ADS) can be
IN an emergency communication system notification zone, or

   subdivision thereof, that can be an enclosed or otherwise physi-
   cally defined space, or that can be distinguished from other
   spaces because of different acoustical, environmental, or use

R characteristics such as reverberation time and ambient sound

   pressure level. The ADS might have acoustical design features

Othat are conducive for voice intelligibility, or it might be a space
Fwhere voice intelligibility could be difficult or impossible to
achieve.                                                                        not use higher bandwidth loudspeakers in all locations unless

D.2.3.1.2 All parts of a building or area intended to have occu-                needed to overcome certain acoustic and ambient conditions.
pant notification are subdivided into ADSs as defined. Some                     This is because the higher bandwidth appliance will require
ADSs might be designated to have voice communications capa-                     more energy to perform properly. This increases amplifier and
bility and require that those communications be intelligible.                   wire size and power supply requirements.

Other spaces might not require voice intelligibility or might                   D.2.3.1.9 In some spaces it might be impractical to achieve
not be capable of reliable voice intelligibility. Each is still refer-
red to as an ADS.                                                               intelligibility, and in such a case alternatives to voice evacuation
                                                                                might be required within such areas.

D.2.3.1.3 In smaller areas, such as those under 400 ft2 (40 m2),                D.2.3.1.10 There might be some areas of a facility where there
walls alone will define the ADS. In larger areas, other factors                 are several spaces of the same approximate size and with the
might have to be considered. In spaces that might be subdivi-                   same acoustic properties. For example, there might be an
ded by temporary or movable partitions, such as ballrooms and                   office space with multiple individual offices, each with one
meeting rooms, each individual configuration should be

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-358                                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

              71.5 ft (21.8 m)                                                                                     15 ft (4.6 m)
                                                            8.5 ft (2.6 m)
                                                                 45.5 ft (13.9 m)

                                           117 ft (35.7 m)

Y loudspeaker. If one or two are satisfactorily tested, there is noFIGURE D.2.3.1.7 Illustration Demonstrating Effect of Ceiling Height. (Source: R. P. Schifiliti
L need to test all of them for speech intelligibility.Associates, Inc.)
N D.2.3.2 Audibility Test. Measurement of the sound pressure
                                                                                  D.2.4.2 Speech intelligibility is not a physical quantity like
level of a tone signal in accordance with the requirements of                     meters, feet, amperes, volts, or even decibels. It is a benchmark
                                                                                  of the degree to which we understand spoken language, and as
O NFPA 72.                                                                        such is a complex phenomenon affected by many variables
                                                                                  (Ref: Jacob, K. & Tyson, T., "Computer-Based Prediction of
D.2.3.3 Intelligibility Test. A test method used to predict how                   Speech Intelligibility for Mass Notification Systems," SUPDET
                                                                                  2008, Fire Protection Research Foundation, Mar 2008). There
E well speech is understood by a listener.                                        are two basic categories of intelligibility testing: (1) subject
S D.2.3.4 Occupied Ambient Sound Pressure Level. The period                       (human) based testing and (2) instrument based test methods.
                                                                                  Test methods that use human subjects are only statistical
of time when the building involved in the test is occupied and                    predictions of how well speech might be understood at any
                                                                                  other time for any other group of listeners. Several subject
U is reasonably close to having maximum background noise. For                     based test methods have been extensively researched, tested for
                                                                                  reliability, and standardized. Examples include the Phonetically
example, this might involve the operation of HVAC equipment,                      Balanced (PB) word scores (256 words or 1000 words) and
an industrial process, or a maximum number of occupants                           Modified Rhyme Test (MRT). (Ref: ANSI S3.2-1989 revised
                                                                                  2009, "Method for Measuring the Intelligibility of Speech over
L such as might occur in a place of public assembly.                              Communication Systems." Ref: ISO/TR 4870, "Acoustics --
A D.2.3.5 STI or STIPA Test Signal.                                               The Construction and Calibration of Speech Intelligibility
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U D.2.3.5.1 A special audio signal that is played over the emer-Tests").
                                                                                  D.2.4.3 Subject based test methods can gauge how much of
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} gency communications system being tested.                    the spoken information is correctly understood by a person or
                                                                                  group of persons for that particular test. When properly done,
ID D.2.3.5.2 Instruments that measure STI using a STIPA signal                    that resulting value is a prediction of how much of the spoken
                                                                                  word will be correctly understood by others at some other time.
use a special signal that consists of signals in seven octave                     Therefore, the results of speech intelligibility testing are usually
                                                                                  described as predictions, not measurements. However, most
IV bands. The sound in each octave band is modulated using two                    users of the instruments refer to the results as measurements,
                                                                                  not as predictions. Since the use of portable instruments is the
(separate) modulation frequencies. The STI and STIPA have                         more common method in the alarm and emergency communi-
been standardized in IEC 60268. However, at the present time,                     cations industries, in this document the results will be referred
                                                                                  to as measurements to avoid confusion. However, in scientific
D the implementation of the measurement software and correla-                     and general acoustic literature, readers can see the measured
                                                                                  values correctly referred to as predictions.
tions with the test signal can differ between instrument manu-

IN facturers. Therefore, until there is further standardization, only

the test signal recommended by the instrument manufacturer
should be used with their instrument. Although the STIPA test
signals can sound similar, there might be speed or other differ-

R ences that affect results if one manufacturer's test signal is used

with another manufacturer's instrument.

O D.2.3.6 Talkbox. An instrument usually consisting of a high
Fquality audio loudspeaker and a CD player or other method
used to play an STI or STIPA test signal.                                         D.2.4.4 Several instrument based methods for predicting
                                                                                  speech intelligibility have been extensively researched and
D.2.3.7 Unoccupied Ambient Sound Pressure Level. The                              tested for accuracy and repeatability, and the methods have
period of time when the primary occupants of the facility are                     been standardized, most notably the Speech Intelligibility
not present, or when ambient sound pressure level is not at its                   Index (SII) (formerly the Articulation Index, AI), Speech
highest level.                                                                    Transmission Index (STI), and Speech Transmission Index for

D.2.4 Acceptability Criteria.                                                     Public Address (STIPA) (Ref: IEC 60268-16, "Sound system
                                                                                  equipment -- Part 16: Objective rating of speech intelligibility
D.2.4.1 The intelligibility of an emergency communication                         by speech transmission index", 2003. Ref: ANSI/ASA S3.5,
system is considered acceptable if at least 90 percent of the                     "American National Standard Methods for Calculation of the
measurement locations within each ADS have a measured STI
of not less than 0.45 (0.65 CIS) and an average STI of not less                   Speech Intelligibility Index", 1997). Accuracy is how close the
                                                                                  meter corresponds to actual human test results. Thus, even
than 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS).

2019 Edition                   Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

ANNEX D                                                                                                          72-359

though an instrument is used, the results are subjective in that                     standpoint, the space around a loud machine might be one
they correlate with how humans perceive the quality of speech.      ADS while the rest of the room is a separate ADS. The ADS
                                                                    surrounding the machine might be designed to have some
D.2.4.5 Each of the established methods for measuring speech        form of occupant notification but not to have intelligible voice
intelligibility has its own scale. The Common Intelligibility       communications. This type of ADS designation permits the
Scale (CIS) was developed in 1995 to show the relationship          remainder of the room to be scored without being penalized by
between the different methods and to permit codes and stand-        the fact that intelligible communication near some loud sound
ards to require a certain level of performance while permitting     sources might not be possible.
any of the accepted measurement methods to be employed
(Ref: Barnett, P.W. and Knight, A.D., "The Common Intelligi-                         D.2.4.11 The intelligibility performance requirement cited
bility Scale," Proceedings of the Institute of Acoustics, Vol. 17,                   herein intentionally uses two decimal points. Portable instru-
Part 7, 1995). The Speech Transmission Index (STI) is widely        ments that use the STIPA method for measuring the Speech
used and has been implemented in portable equipment using a                          Transmission Index (STI) generally have a precision on the
   modified method called STIPA (STI Public Address). For this                       order of 0.02 to 0.03 (Ref: Sander J. van Wijngaarden and Jan
   reason, the performance metrics cited in this document use                        A. Verhave, Past Present and Future of the Speech Transmis-
   units of STI with units of CIS in parentheses. The relationship                   sion Index, Chapter 9, Measurement and Prediction of Speech
                                                                                     Intelligibility in Traffic Tunnels Using the STI, p113, TNO
Y between the two is: CIS = 1+log (STI). Relationships between                       Human Factors, The Netherlands, 2002). Other methods that
L other methods can be found in the literature (Ref: IEC 60849,                      measure STI can have a greater measurement precision. Other
                                                                                     measurement methods, such as Modified Rhyme Test (MRT),
   Annex B, Sound Systems for Emergency Purposes, Feb 1998).                         Phonetically Balanced Word (PB) lists, and Speech Intelligibil-
                                                                                     ity Index (SII), also have levels of precision in the hundredths
N D.2.4.6 If an ADS is small enough to only require one meas-                        when properly conducted and scored. However, there might be
                                                                                     slight variations in measured values between any two meters or
   urement location (see D.3.7 for the recommendation for meas-                      between any two persons taking measurements with the same
                                                                                     instrument, or between any two listener panels when using
O urement point spacing), the result should be 0.50 STI                              subject based test methods. This is true for any measurement
                                                                                     method or instrument, including simple scales for measuring
   (0.70 CIS) or more for the ADS to pass the requirement for                        length or mass.
                                                                                     D.2.4.12 Measurements should be made and recorded using
E speech intelligibility. This is based on the requirement for an                    two decimal places. Averages can be calculated to three deci-
                                                                                     mal points and rounded. The calculated average value should
   average of 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS) or more in that ADS. Therefore,                    be rounded to the nearest five-hundredths (0.05) to reflect
                                                                                     possible measurement errors and the intent of the requirement
S a single measurement of 0.45 STI (0.65 CIS) would not be                           (Ref: Mapp, P., "Systematic & Common Errors in Sound System
                                                                                     STI and Intelligibility Measurements," Convention Paper 6271,
   considered acceptable, because that one measurement would                         Audio Engineering Society, 117th Convention, San Fran, CA,
                                                                                     28­31 Oct 2004. Ref: Peter Mapp, Past Present and Future of
U be below the minimum required average of 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS)                       the Speech Transmission Index, Chapter 8, Practical Applica-
                                                                                     tion of STI to Assessing Public Address and Emergency Sound
   in that ADS.                                                                      Systems, TNO Human Factors, The Netherlands, 2002). For
                                                                                     example, averages of 0.47­0.525 STI would all be rounded to
L D.2.4.7 If the value at that one measurement location were                         report an average of 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS). The minimum value
                                                                                     permitted for all but 10 percent of the measurement locations
   less than 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS), additional measurements could                      in an ADS should be 0.45 STI (0.65 CIS) or greater. For exam-
                                                                                     ple, values of 0.44 STI are below the minimum; they are not
A be taken at that same single measurement location. As with                         rounded up to 0.45 STI.
                                                                                     D.2.5 Limitations of Test Method.
   simple sound pressure level measurements, intelligibility meas-                   D.2.5.1 Equipment designed in accordance with UL 864 and
                                                                                     fire alarm loudspeakers designed in accordance with UL 1480
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U urements at any point will vary. If the average of all the meas- are only tested for and only required to produce frequencies of
                                                                                     400 to 4000 Hz. Speech, however, includes a wider range of
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} urements at that location were 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS) or more, thefrequencies. Speech intelligibility measurements using STI and
                                                                                     STIPA include octave band measurements that range from
ID ADS would pass the requirement for speech intelligibility.

 D.2.4.8 Some ADSs might require multiple measurement

IV points due to their larger size. (See D.3.7 for the recommenda-

   tion for measurement point spacing.) However, even in a small

D ADS where one measurement point would be permitted, a

   designer might intend that multiple measurements be made

IN because of conditions that might result in specific points

   having intelligibility scores below the minimum. Where an ADS
   has multiple measurement locations, the requirement is that at
   least 90 percent of the measurement locations have values not

R less than 0.45 STI (0.65 CIS) and that all measurement points

   average to 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS) or greater.

OD.2.4.9 The use of an average intelligibility score as a part of
Fthe requirement permits a wider range of measured values

   within an ADS than would a simple minimum requirement. A
   range of permitted values is not appropriate since there is no
   need for an upper limit for intelligibility -- prefect intelligibil-
   ity is certainly acceptable.

 D.2.4.10 The requirement that only 90 percent of the meas-                          125 Hz to 8000 Hz. STI results are most dependent on the
   ured points in the ADS meet the minimum and that the aver-                        2000, 1000, 500, and 4000 Hz octave bands (in order of weight-
                                                                                     ing) and to a lesser extent the 8000 and 250 Hz octave bands
age for the entire ADS be 0.50 STI (0.70 CIS) or greater                             and to an even lesser extent, the 125 Hz band (again, in order
recognizes that in any space, with any system and any set of                         of weighting).
acoustic conditions, there can be points where the intelligibility
score might be below the minimum. See also the discussion in
D.2.3.1 on the definition of an ADS and how some ADSs might                          D.2.5.2 While the lower and higher octave bands in STI calcu-
be designated to not require speech intelligibility at all. For                      lations are weighted much less than the others, under certain
example, in a room that is otherwise similar from an acoustics                       acoustic conditions, systems that do not produce the highs and
                                                                                     the lows can produce speech intelligibility that is less than

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-360                               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

desired. This does not imply that all systems should use equip-      tions system design and installation, system equipment supplier
ment capable of greater bandwidth sound reproduction. While                                           and/or manufacturer, and the authority having jurisdiction.
the larger frequency response will probably sound better and
be more intelligible to a listener, it might not be necessary for                                     D.3 Pre-Planning.

the minimum desired performance. The use of equipment                                                 D.3.1 Facility Occupancy and Use.
with higher bandwidth will require an increase in power
supplies, amplifiers, and wire sizes to drive the loudspeaker                                         D.3.1.1 Occupancy/Use Types. Prior to testing, the pre-
                                                                                                      planning effort should identify the occupancy or use type to
appliances.                                                                                           better minimize disruption to the facility occupants during the

D.2.5.3 Areas of high ambient sound pressure levels ("noise")                                         test.
might be incapable of meeting the acceptability criteria in
D.2.4.                                                                                                D.3.1.2 Normal Operational Time Periods. Prior to testing,
                                                                                                      pre-planning efforts should identify the operational time peri-
 D.2.5.4 In areas where the ambient sound pressure level                                              ods when the occupied ambient sound pressure level and the
   exceeds 90 dBA, satisfactory speech intelligibility is difficult to                                unoccupied ambient sound pressure level are most likely to
   achieve with conventional communications equipment and                                             occur.
                                                                                                      D.3.1.3 Testing Before Building Furnishing Completion. It
Y design practice. A better system design might include alternate                                     might be necessary to perform testing to permit partial use
                                                                                                      before the building is in its final acoustic configuration. The
   communications methods, such as signs and displays, or might                                       results of intelligibility testing at this stage can differ from the
                                                                                                      final performance of the system. It might be necessary to work
L involve providing occupant notification but not voice alarm                                         with the authority having jurisdiction to develop a testing plan.
                                                                                                      For example, until acoustical treatments such as carpeting, ceil-
   communication at that location.                                                                    ing tiles, and other furnishings are in place, the system can be
                                                                                                      partially tested to meet audibility requirements but not necessa-
N D.2.5.5 Impulse sounds made during measurements can                                                 rily intelligibility requirements. Other test plans or mitigating
O impact measurement accuracy or cause instrument error.                                              procedures might be permitted.
                                                                                                      D.3.1.4 Facility Construction and Condition. Construction in
   D.2.5.6 Impulse sounds such as accidentally tapping the meter                                      the facility to be tested should be completed for areas that will
                                                                                                      be subject to intelligibility testing. This specifically requires that
E microphone, or a nearby door slamming can cause a measure-                                          the command center and all locations of system microphones
                                                                                                      to be tested should be completed. Any location of remote
   ment error. Some meters will display an error message. If an                                       system microphones not tested during this time should be
                                                                                                      noted, and said locations should be fully tested with positive
S impulse sound occurs during the measurement, consider                                               results within 90 days of area occupancy or as required by the
                                                                                                      authority having jurisdiction. Also, all building systems such as
   taking another measurement to check the results. This process                                      environmental conditioning systems should be completed and
                                                                                                      operational, as they both produce noise and provide acoustic
U is analogous to ignoring temporary sound sources, as permitted                                      noise travel paths. In addition, all floor treatments and any
                                                                                                      acoustical wall or ceiling treatments should be in place.
   by NFPA 72 when taking sound pressure level measurements.                                          D.3.1.5 System Under Test Status. The system under test
                                                                                                      should be completed for all areas where intelligibility testing
L D.2.5.7 Natural variation in ambient sound pressure level                                           will be done.
                                                                                                      D.3.1.6 System Under Test Power. System under test should
   levels can affect the results.                                                                     be on permanent primary power source as defined in NFPA 72.
                                                                                                      D.3.1.7 System Under Test Secondary Power. Secondary
A D.2.6 General Requirements.                                                                         power, where required and/or provided for the system under
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} D.2.6.1 The qualified staff should be identified on the systemtest, should be fully functional. If batteries are used for this
ID design documents. Acceptable evidence of qualifications or                                         purpose, batteries should be fully charged for a minimum of

   certification should be provided when requested by the author-
   ity having jurisdiction. Qualified personnel should include, but

IV not be limited to, one or more of the following:

   (1) Personnel who are factory trained and certified for fire

  D alarm system design of the specific type and brand of

           system addressed by this test protocol

IN (2) Personnel who are certified by a nationally recognized
           certification organization acceptable to the authority
           having jurisdiction
   (3) Personnel who are registered, licensed, or certified by a

  R state or local authority
O D.2.6.2 All necessary precautions should be taken with the

   facility owner to work with appropriately qualified staff when

Fhandling or performing any function with the emergency
communications system control unit.                                                                   48 hours prior to the commencement of any testing.

   D.2.6.3 Testing impairment and record keeping requirements                                         D.3.2 Emergency Communications Equipment.
   of NFPA 72, Chapter 14 should apply.                                                               D.3.2.1 As discussed in D.2.3.1, not all ADSs will require or be
   D.2.6.4 Test measurements and other documentation should                                           capable of intelligible voice communications. It is the design-
   be maintained as required by the authority having jurisdiction.                                    er's job to define areas that will have voice communication
   D.2.6.5 Impairment management procedures of NFPA 72,                                               versus those that might have tone-only signaling, as well as
   Section 10.21 should be followed.                                                                  which spaces will have visual notification appliances (strobes),
 D.2.6.6 Test Participants. The test participants should include                                      textual signage, or other forms of notification and/or commu-
   representatives of the following: building owners, the organiza-                                   nication. This document intends that "notification" mean any
   tions responsible for the fire alarm or emergency communica-                                       form of notification, not just voice communication, whether
                                                                                                      audible, visual, or using some other human sense.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                      ANNEX D                                                                                        72-361

D.3.2.2 There might be applications where not all spaces will                         D.3.2.5.1.5 Place the system under test into manual paging
require intelligible voice signaling (Ref: NFPA 72, 2007,                             mode (microphone "live" and connected to amplifier circuitry
Section A.7.4.1.4). For example, in a residential occupancy                           with notification appliance circuits active).
such as an apartment, the authority having jurisdiction and the
designer might agree to a system that achieves the required                           D.3.2.5.1.6 Using a 4-digit accuracy RMS meter, set on AC
audibility throughout but does not result in intelligible voice                       scale, set the output of the System Under Test audio notifica-
signaling in the bedrooms. The system would be sufficient to                          tion appliance circuits to between 24 and 26 Vrms for 25.2 volt
awaken and alert. However, intelligibility might not be achieved                      systems or between 69 and 71 Vrms for 70.7 volt systems.

in the bedrooms with the doors closed and the sounder in the                          D.3.2.5.1.7 Once system under test manual paging mode has
adjacent hallway or room. In some cases this can require that
messages repeat a sufficient number of times to ensure that                           been calibrated, prerecorded tone (if so equipped) should
                                                                                      then be tested by playing it through the system under test to
occupants can reach a location where the system is sufficiently                       ensure that there is no more than a 3 dBA difference between
   intelligible to be understood. Systems that use tone signaling in
   some areas and voice signaling in other areas would not                            manual paging using the system microphone and the prerecor-
   require voice intelligibility in those areas only covered by the                   ded message. The dBA measurement should be made using an
                                                                                      integrating/averaging meter and averaged over approximately
Y tone.                                                                               10 seconds of voice announcement to compensate for voice
L D.3.2.3 Emergency Communications System Control Unit.                               amplitude modulation.
                                                                                      D.3.2.5.1.8 On a system under test with more than one emer-
   The system under test for the emergency communications                             gency paging microphone and/or prerecorded message units,
                                                                                      the primary units should be calibrated, then secondary units
N system should be located and identified prior to testing, and its                   tested to ensure that they produce signals throughout the
                                                                                      system under test at the same amplitude as the primary units.
   operation features necessary for the testing clarified. Personnel                  D.3.3 Plans and Specifications.
                                                                                      D.3.3.1 The approved plans and specifications for the system
O who are authorized to access and service the control unit are                       should be used to plan and document the tests.
                                                                                      D.3.3.2 Testing is best accomplished using large scale plans
   necessary for the testing and should be included within the                        showing all notification appliances.
   team performing the tests. If necessary, notification to locations                 D.3.3.3 The plans should show the different system notifica-
                                                                                      tion zones.
E beyond the facility that is being tested (e.g., fire department or                  D.3.3.4 The type and location of the notification appliances
                                                                                      used in the emergency communication system should be iden-
   a supervising station) should be notified of the tests, and if                     tified prior to testing.
                                                                                      D.3.3.5 Notification appliance symbols should differentiate
S appropriate, their automatic notification feature disabled.                         the type of appliance where more than one type is used.
                                                                                      D.3.3.6 Notification appliance symbols should include the
   Upon completion of the tests the emergency communications                          design wattage for each loudspeaker appliance.
                                                                                      D.3.3.7 The plans should show the ambient sound pressure
U system should be returned to its normal operating condition.                        levels used as a basis for the system design.
L D.3.2.4 Test Set-up. The function and operation of the emer-                        D.3.4 Calculating Percentage of Articulation Loss of Conso-
                                                                                      nants (%ALCONS). There are occasions in which a space may
   gency communication system control unit should be reviewed                         not be available to take test measurements in prior to the
                                                                                      design being completed. One method of calculation for the
A with personnel authorized to access and operate this equip-                         Speech Intelligibly Index is by calculating percentage of articu-
                                                                                      lation loss of consonants (%ALCONS). The formula is:
   ment. Information should be acquired on the functioning of

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the voice notification portion of the system, and whether it has

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} zone capabilities that will allow minimal disruption to building

ID occupants by testing each zone individually. The test plan

   should also specify whether other functions of the system, such
   as elevator recall and air handler control, will be disabled

IV during the testing of the emergency communications system.

   D.3.2.5 System Under Test Calibration. The complete system

D under test audio path should be fully calibrated in accordance

   with manufacturer's published instructions. On systems with

IN adjustable technology, if manufacturer's published instructions

   are not provided, the alternate calibration procedure offered
   below can be employed to calibrate the system under test.

R D.3.2.5.1 Alternate Calibration Procedure.

   D.3.2.5.1.1 This calibration is to be performed with the system

Ounder test on normal AC power, then checked with the system
Fon secondary power (if so equipped).
D.3.2.5.1.2 The system under test amplifier output or the
circuit being calibrated should have a minimum of a 1-watt                                                                           [D.3.4]

load during the calibration process.                                                  %ALCONS = 656D22RT602(N )/VQM

D.3.2.5.1.3 Perform pre-test occupant and remote monitoring                           where:
station notification requirements specified in NFPA 72, Chap-                           D2 = distance from the loudspeaker to the farthest listener
ter 14.
D.3.2.5.1.4 Introduce a 1 kHz sine-wave tone (± 100 Hz) at                            RT60 = reverberation time (seconds)
90 dBA-fast 4" (4 in.) to the system microphone on-axis,                                 N = power ratio of LW causing LD to the LW of all devices
perpendicular to the face of the microphone.                                                   except those causing LD
                                                                                          V = volume of the room (ft3)
                                                                                         Q = directivity index (ratio)
                                                                                         M = DC modifier (usually 1)

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-362        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

As point of reference, DC is the critical distance.                                 D.3.6.2.1 Possible reasons not to test speech intelligibility
N is further defined as:                                                              include the following:
LW = sound power level (dB)                                                           (1) Distance from the listener to loudspeaker is less than 30 ft
LD = total direct energy                                                                      (9.1 m) in the room (assuming proper audibility and low
LW = 10log (Wa/10-12W)                                                                        reverberation)
Wa = acoustic watts                                                                   (2) Ambient sound level is less than 50 dBA and the average
10-12 = specified reference                                                                   SPL of the voice message is 10­15 dBA greater than the
LD = LW + 10log (Q/4r2) + 10.5                                                                ambient sound level
                                                                                      (3) No appreciable hard surfaces (e.g., glass, marble, tile,
                                                                                              metal)
                                                                                      (4) No appreciable high ceilings (i.e., ceiling height equals
                                                                                              loudspeaker spacing at a ratio of 1:1 optimal or 1:2 max)

   The conversion factor from %ALCONS to STI:                                         D.3.6.2.2 It might be acceptable to only spot test intelligibility.
STI = [­0.1845 × ln(%ALCONS)] + 0.9482                                                One possible reason for spot sample testing is where the space
                                                                                      has been acoustically designed by individuals having skills suffi-
Y D.3.5 Assignment of Acoustically Distinguishable Spaces.                            cient to properly design a voice/alarm system for the occu-
L D.3.5.1 ADSs should be assigned prior to the test, and be                           pancy to be protected (e.g., space has been designed using
                                                                                      commercially available computer modeling software acceptable
subject to review by all test participants.                                           to the authority having jurisdiction).
                                                                                    D.3.6.2.3 Possible reasons to test include the following:
N D.3.5.2 ADS assignments should be a part of the original                            (1) Appreciable hard surfaces (e.g., glass, marble, tile, metal)
O design process. See the discussion in D.2.3.1.                                      (2) Appreciable high ceilings (e.g., atriums, multiple ceiling

D.3.5.3 The design drawings should be used to plan and show                                   heights)
                                                                                      D.3.6.3 In situations where there are several ADSs that have
E the limits of each ADS where there is more than one.                                the exact same physical and system configuration, it might be
                                                                                      possible to test only a representative sample and then just
D.3.5.4 All areas that are intended to have audible occupant                          check the others to confirm system and appliance operation --
                                                                                      for example, hotel rooms with similar layouts or offices of simi-
S notification, whether by tone only or by voice are to be designa-                   lar size and furnishings where each has a loudspeaker appli-
                                                                                      ance. In these cases there would be no expected difference in
ted as one or more ADSs. See D.2.3.1.                                                 system intelligibility. The only possible problem would be one
                                                                                      where an appliance was not operational or tapped at the incor-
U D.3.5.5 The drawings or a table listing all ADSs should be                          rect wattage. These problems would be apparent by a basic
L used to indicate which ADSs will require intelligible voice                         "listening" test.
                                                                                      D.3.6.4 Not all ADSs will require speech intelligibility testing.
communications and which will not. The same drawings or                               Some areas might be designed for notification, but not for
                                                                                      voice communication. Notification can be accomplished by
A table could be used to list audibility requirements where tones                     tone-only signaling or by a pre-alert tone preceding a voice
                                                                                      message. See D.3.5.5.
are used and to list any forms of visual or other notification or                     D.3.6.5 By definition, an ADS is relatively uniform in acoustic
                                                                                      characteristics. However, speech intelligibility will vary at differ-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U communications methods being employed in the ADS.                 ent points within an ADS depending primarily on distance to
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} D.3.5.6 ADS layouts that differ from the original, approved   noise sources and distance to loudspeaker appliances. Gener-
                                                                                      ally, in smaller spaces up to about 40 ft × 40 ft (12.2 m ×
design documents should be approved by the authority having                           12.2 m), one measurement location will be sufficient. The loca-
jurisdiction.                                                                         tion should not be directly in front of a wall mounted loud-
                                                                                      speaker or directly under a ceiling mounted loudspeaker.
IV D.3.6 Spaces Not Requiring Testing.                                                Neither should it be in the far corner right next to walls or
                                                                                      windows. Generally, try to stay about 5 to 10 ft (1.5 to 3.0 m)
D.3.6.1 Buildings and areas of buildings that are not acousti-                        away from vertical surfaces that reflect sound. In larger spaces,
                                                                                      a grid of about 40 ft × 40 ft (12.2 m × 12.2 m) can be used as a
D cally challenging such as traditional office environments, hotel                    starting guide, then adjusted for the locations of machines and
                                                                                      other obstructions and for loudspeaker appliance locations.
guest rooms, dwelling units, and spaces with carpeting and                            See D.2.4 for additional discussion on measuring points and
                                                                                      the averaging of results in an ADS.
IN furnishings generally meet intelligibility levels if the audibility

levels are consistent with the requirements of NFPA 72.
Performing intelligibility testing might not be necessary in

R these areas. Areas of a typical building that can be acoustically

challenging could include vehicle parking levels and large

O lobby areas with hard floors and wall surfaces, stairs, and other

spaces with high reverberation. Intelligibility meeting the

Frequirements in this document can be difficult to achieve

throughout these spaces. Specialized sound system design
procedures, principles, and equipment might be necessary to
achieve speech intelligibility in high noise areas or areas with
challenging acoustics. Alternatively, intelligibility could be
provided near exits and within specific areas (elevator lobby of
a parking level) where occupants can obtain clear instructions
after being alerted. This is done, in part, by the proper plan-
ning and designation of ADSs.

D.3.6.2 Factors that influence the decision to measure or not                      D.3.6.6 Of the ADSs that do require intelligible voice commu-
measure speech intelligibility include those in D.3.6.2.1                          nications, some will require speech intelligibility testing and
through D.3.6.2.3.                                                                 others might only require audibility testing.

                                                                                   D.3.6.7 Testing of intelligibility might not be required in
                                                                                   buildings and areas of buildings that are not acoustically chal-

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                          ANNEX D                                                72-363

lenging and that meet the audibility requirements of NFPA 72.                      with the definitions in D.2.3 for occupied ambient sound pres-
Spaces that are not considered to be acoustically challenging                      sure level and for unoccupied ambient sound pressure level.
include traditional office environments, hotel guest rooms,                        D.3.8.2 The preferred procedure is to conduct the STI/STIPA
spaces with carpeting and furnishings that reduce reverbera-                       test in the presence of the occupied ambient sound pressure
tion, and other, smaller spaces where a loudspeaker appliance                      level. See D.6.4.
is installed in the space.

D.3.7 Measurement Points Within ADS.                                               D.3.8.3 Where the test method is measuring the STI using the
                                                                                   STIPA test signal, the STIPA test signal can be played through
D.3.7.1 Measurements should be taken at an elevation of 5 ft                       the system and the STI can be measured and the data saved by
(1.5 m) or at any other elevation deemed appropriate based on                      the test instrument when the area is either not occupied or
occupancy (e.g., elevated walkways, child-height, sitting height,                  when the background ambient conditions are not the occupied
work area height, etc.) or test instrument instructions.                           ambient sound pressure level. It is also necessary to measure
                                                                                   and save the unoccupied ambient sound level at each measure-
   D.3.7.2 The number and location of measurement points in                        ment location. Then, during occupied times, take and save
   each ADS should be planned and based on the area and                            ambient sound level measurements. The three data sets are
   volume of the space and the loudspeaker appliance location                      combined by software to calculate the corrected STI for the
                                                                                   area. See D.6.5.6.
Y within the space. The location of noise sources, egress paths,                   D.4 Test Equipment Calibration for Testing Using STIPA Test
L and the locations of personnel in the space should also be                       Signal.
                                                                                   D.4.1 General.
   considered.                                                                     D.4.1.1 The calibration of the STI test instrument is done in
                                                                                   accordance with this section using a talkbox or in accordance
N D.3.7.3 Testing when the area is occupied and when the ambi-                     with manufacturer's published instructions.
                                                                                   D.4.1.2 The Intelligibility Test System consists of a talkbox and
   ent sound level is at or near its expected maximum is preferred                 STIPA test meter (analyzer) all from one manufacturer. Units
                                                                                   from other manufacturers should not be interchanged unless
O because it is easier. However, it does involve playing of a test                 said units have been tested by a recognized testing laboratory
                                                                                   for compatibility (see D.2.3.5.2).
   signal through the emergency communications system for the                      D.4.1.3 Prior to performing any intelligibility testing or intelli-
                                                                                   gibility system calibration, verify that the test meter's micro-
E duration of the test. When testing using the STIPA signal, the                   phone, talkbox, and analyzer are within calibration date as
                                                                                   listed on the unit's calibration tag.
   signal is a continuous noise signal. Other methods that meas-                   D.4.1.4 All audio test equipment, including ANSI Type 2
                                                                                   sound pressure level meters required by NFPA 72 for audibility
S ure STI use a swept tone that should be repeated for each                        testing, require regular calibration to known, traceable stand-
                                                                                   ards. The portable meters used to measure STI using the STIPA
   measurement location. The alternate procedure is to test and                    test signal should meet or exceed ANSI Type 2 meter require-
                                                                                   ments. In addition, the STIPA test signal and the meter algo-
U save the STI measurement data during unoccupied times,                           rithm for measuring the received signal and calculating the
                                                                                   modulation transfer function to arrive at the STI should be
   measure and save the unoccupied sound level, and then take                      tested by a certifying laboratory for accuracy to the IEC stand-
                                                                                   ard for STI.
L and save sound level measurements during occupied times.                         D.4.2 Calibration Procedure.
                                                                                   D.4.2.1 The following procedures should be performed at the
   The three data sets are combined by software to calculate the                   commencement and conclusion of intelligibility testing. If the
                                                                                   following procedure differs from that recommended by the
A corrected STI for the area. Testing using this method requires

   three measurements at each measurement location, but does

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U not subject occupants to constant test signals. The choice of

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} testing occupied versus unoccupied for intelligibility is the

ID same as for audibility testing of tone signaling systems and is

   based on convenience versus disruption of normal use of the
   space. However, unlike audibility testing, intelligibility testing is

IV less likely to contribute to the Cry Wolf Syndrome because the

   test signal is not the same as the evacuation tone, which would

D be sounded throughout testing of a tone signaling system. [Ref:

   Schifiliti, Robert P., "Fire Alarm Testing Strategies Can Improve

IN Occupant Response and Reduce the "Cry Wolf" Syndrome,"

   NEMA Supplement in Fire Protection Engineering, Society of
   Fire Protection Engineers, Bethesda, MD 20814, Fall 2003.]
   and [Ref: Brezntiz, S., "Cry Wolf: The Psychology of False

R Alarms," Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ, February

   1984.]

OD.3.7.4 If multiple measurement points are required within
Fan ADS, they should be separated by about 40 ft (12.2 m).
D.3.7.5 No more than one third of the measurement points                           manufacturer of the test equipment, follow their calibration
within an ADS should be on the axis of a loudspeaker.                              test procedure.

D.3.7.6 See D.2.4 for the requirements for averaging the            D.4.2.2 Perform calibration procedures in a quiet room (45
results at different measurement points within an ADS.                dBA or less) without any extraneous sounds or any talking,
                                                                      music, etc.

D.3.7.7 Measurement points should be shown on plans or                             D.4.2.3 Start STIPA test tone as instructed by the manufac-
otherwise described in a way that permits future testing at the                    turer.
same locations.                                                                    D.4.2.4 Apply power to the talkbox and then actuate the
D.3.8 Test Method -- Occupied versus Unoccupied.                                   STIPA test signal.

D.3.8.1 It is possible to conduct STI measurements when the                        D.4.2.5 Turn on the analyzer and set it to SPL A fast measure-
area is occupied or when it is not occupied. In this document                      ment mode.
"occupied" versus "unoccupied" is intended to be consistent

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-364                     NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

D.4.2.6 Place the analyzer's microphone approximately 1 in.,      D.5.1.5.2 The talkbox is set up and calibrated per D.5.2, and
on axis, from the talkbox. Do not place the analyzer micro-       field measurements of the STI are made using the procedure
phone against any hard surface -- this can lead to induced        in Section D.6.
noise and affect the calibration.                                 D.5.2 Calibrating the Input Test Signal for Microphone Input
D.4.2.7 Adjust the talkbox volume so that the STI analyzer's      Method.
reading is approximately 92 dBA.                                  D.5.2.1 Of the two methods for setting the test signal input to
D.4.2.8 Keeping the analyzer in approximately the same posi-      the system microphone, the method that sets the level to match
tion, measure the STI. Note that some meters display STI meas-    that of a person speaking into the microphone is the one
urements using the CIS scale while some can display results in    required by IEC 60268-16, Sound system equipment -- Part 16:
either STI or CIS units. See D.2.4 for an explanation of the CIS  Objective rating of speech intelligibility by speech transmission index,
scale.                                                            the standard that defines STI and STIPA.

D.4.2.9 The equipment is working properly if the reading is                        D.5.2.2 In theory, the two methods for setting up the talkbox
greater than 0.91 STI or 0.96 CIS. Up to three tests can be                        should result in the talkbox being set at approximately the
performed. If the system does not pass after three tests, it                       same sound level. The ECS should be designed and configured
                                                                                   so that input to the microphone results in the same output
Y should be returned to the manufacturer for repair or recalibra-                  level that any prerecorded announcements would produce.
L tion.                                                                            D.5.2.3 General.
N D.5 Talkbox Set-up.                                                              D.5.2.3.1 There are two methods for setting the level of the
                                                                                   STI or STIPA test signal at the input microphone.
D.5.1 Input Test Signal.                                                           D.5.2.3.2 Method 1 sets the volume of the input test signal so
                                                                                   that the dBA output in the area under test is the same as that
O D.5.1.1 The input test signal should be configured to produce                    for a prerecorded message.
                                                                                   D.5.2.3.3 Method 2 sets the volume of the input test signal to
the proper level by utilizing either the microphone input                          match that of speech level under normal conditions.
                                                                                   D.5.2.3.4 The room where the talkbox and system under test
E method or the direct input injection method.                                     microphone are located should be quiet.
S D.5.1.2 Most emergency communications systems have micro-                        D.5.2.3.5 An emergency command center or fire command
                                                                                   center will not be free of noise during an actual emergency.
phones for manual voice communication and should be tested                         However, for testing purposes, the room should be relatively
                                                                                   free of extraneous noises that could affect the results. The
U using the microphone test method. Systems that do not have                       purpose of the tests is to establish the baseline capability of the
                                                                                   system and acoustic environment to support intelligible
microphones and that only play prerecorded voice announce-                         communications. Good design practice for an emergency
                                                                                   command center is to isolate the space so that only emergency
L ments can be tested using the direct input injection method.                     command personnel have access. In addition, the location of
                                                                                   the microphone for manual input should be such that back-
D.5.1.3 By putting the STI or STIPA test signal into the system                    ground discussions and noise are minimized.
                                                                                   D.5.2.3.6 Set up the talkbox in accordance with the manufac-
A via the system microphone, the ECS system is being tested from                   turer's published instructions.
                                                                                   D.5.2.4 Method 1 -- Matching Recorded Message Level.
end to end. If an ECS system has the test signal prerecorded in                    D.5.2.4.1 The intent of this method is to set the talkbox or
                                                                                   audio source input level into the emergency communications
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U its hardware, playback of that test signal would not be testingsystem microphone so that the output at a location in the area
                                                                                   under test is the same as the level of prerecorded messages
8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} the microphone and the part that feeds the microphone signal

ID into the system.

D.5.1.4 Direct Input Injection Method for Test Signals.

IV D.5.1.4.1 With this method the STI or STIPA test signals are

prerecorded in the emergency communications system hard-

D ware in the same way as the prerecorded voice messages and at

the same input levels. Alternately, the test signal can input to

IN the system via input jacks or terminals.

D.5.1.4.2 The input level of the test signal should be tested by
the ECS listing agency as being the same as the prerecorded

R voice levels or should be calibrated using the ECS equipment

manufacturer's published instructions.

O D.5.1.4.3 For ECS systems that permit voice messages to be
Fcustom recorded, the equivalent sound level (see A.18.4.4.1) Leq
of the recorded voice over a period of 10 seconds or the length                    played by the system.

of the voice message should be measured and should be within                       D.5.2.4.2 The sound pressure level produced by the talkbox
3 dB of the prerecorded STI or STIPA test signal to ensure that                    while playing the STI or STIPA test signal should be matched
it is at the correct level.                                                        with the sound pressure level of the prerecorded voice

D.5.1.4.4 Field measurements of the STI are made using the                         message.

procedure in Section D.5.                                                          D.5.2.4.3 Two people will be needed to perform the calibra-

D.5.1.5 Microphone Input Method for Test Signals.                                  tion procedure. One person needs to be present at the talkbox
                                                                                   while the other person needs to operate the analyzer at a typi-
D.5.1.5.1 With this method a recording of the STI or STIPA                         cal location in the facility.
test signals are played into the system microphone using a talk-
box.                                                                               D.5.2.4.4 At a typical location in the facility, position the
                                                                                   analyzer it so its microphone is approximately 5 ft (1.5 m)
                                                                                   above the finished floor.

2019 Edition               Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                    ANNEX D                                                                      72-365

D.5.2.4.5 Set the analyzer (meter) to measure sound pressure                        made at both 60 dBA and 70 dBA at one meter talking level to
level, A-weighted, fast.                                                            test the effects of elevated voice level.

D.5.2.4.6 Actuate the prerecorded voice message from the                            D.5.2.5.8 Sound pressure level increases 6 dB whenever the
ECS.                                                                                distance is halved. So, the test could be set up so that the talk-
D.5.2.4.7 The decibel reading at the analyzer will be some-                         box level achieves 65 + 6 = 71 dBA at a distance of 19.7 in.
what erratic due to the nature of speech signals.                                   (0.50 m). Table D.5.2.5.8 shows different dB levels at distances
                                                                                    that would be equivalent to 65 dBA at 39.4 in. (1.0 m).

D.5.2.4.8 Record the highest dB reading the system produces.                        D.5.2.5.9 Begin field testing in accordance with Section D.6.

D.5.2.4.9 Do not move the analyzer from the test location.                          D.6 STI/STIPA Test Procedure.

D.5.2.4.10 Turn off the prerecorded voice message.                                  D.6.1 General. This test procedure permits testing during

   D.5.2.4.11 Place the microphone of the emergency communi-                        either occupied conditions or during unoccupied conditions.
   cations system at a distance from the talkbox as recommended                     See D.3.8.
   by the microphone or ECS manufacturer.                                           D.6.2 Power. The system under test should be tested on
                                                                                    secondary power for a minimum of 15 minutes and then on
Y D.5.2.4.12 Start the talkbox STI or STIPA test signal.                            primary power for the remainder of the testing.
L D.5.2.4.13 Adjust the talkbox sound level until the field meas-                   D.6.3 System Operation. Where two ADSs are adjacent to
N urement of the test signal is ±3 dB of the level generated when                   each other and not separated by physically barriers that signifi-
                                                                                    cantly prevent noise penetration from one ADS to another, the
   the prerecorded voice message was played and measured. This                      notification appliances in both ADSs should be operating
                                                                                    during the testing. It is acceptable for intelligibility testing to
O setting should not change for the remainder of the testing.                       silence or disable other notification zones that would not
                                                                                    potentially interfere with each other. However, regular testing
   D.5.2.4.14 Begin field testing in accordance with Section D.6.                   per NFPA 72 would require that all circuits be operated simulta-
                                                                                    neously at one point to ensure proper operation and to verify
E D.5.2.5 Method 2 -- Matching Speech Level.                                        power requirements.
S D.5.2.5.1 The intent of this method is to set the talkbox or                      D.6.4 Occupied Testing.
                                                                                    D.6.4.1 Testing should be done during a period of time when
   audio source input level to the emergency communications                         the area is occupied and is reasonably close to having maxi-
                                                                                    mum background noise.
U system microphone to match that of an average person speak-                       D.6.4.2 Set up the talkbox in accordance with Section D.4 and
                                                                                    start the STI or STIPA test signal.
   ing into the microphone.                                                         D.6.4.3 At each measurement point in each ADS measure the
                                                                                    STI.
L D.5.2.5.2 Set the analyzer (meter) to measure sound pressure                      D.6.4.4 Document the results on plans or forms in a way that
A level, A-weighted, fast.                                                          accurately describes the measurement point and that permits
                                                                                    future testing at the same locations.
   D.5.2.5.3 Start the STI or STIPA test signal and hold the                        D.6.5 Unoccupied Testing.
                                                                                    D.6.5.1 General. Testing of speech intelligibility in the pres-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U meter at a distance of 39.4 in. (1.0 m) on-axis from the talkboxence of the occupied ambient sound pressure level is the
                                                                                    preferred method. However, for various reasons, including
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} or audio source.                                              disruption of normal work, it might be desirable to only do
                                                                                    "silent" testing during occupied periods and to do testing with
ID D.5.2.5.4 Set the talkbox volume (level) so that the meter

   registers 65 dBA at a distance of 39.4 in. (1.0 m). This setting

IV should not change for the remainder of the testing.

   D.5.2.5.5 The distance from the microphone to the talkbox

D should be documented so that future tests can be set up consis-

   tently. Most microphone manufacturers or ECS equipment

IN manufacturers will state a recommended distance for a person

   to hold the microphone when talking. Some microphone use
   chin guards or some physical means to help users know when

R they are holding the microphone at the correct distance. If the

   manufacturer has not recommended a talking distance, 4 in.

O(100 mm) is recommended as a guide.
FD.5.2.5.6 Place the microphone of the emergency communi-
cations system at a distance from the talkbox as recommended
by the microphone or ECS manufacturer.
                                                                         Table D.5.2.5.8 Audibility Equivalent to 65 dBA at 1-m
                                                                                    Distance
D.5.2.5.7 A level of 60 dBA at one meter is required by IEC
60268-16, Sound system equipment -- Part 16: Objective rating of
speech intelligibility by speech transmission index, the standard that                   r    r  LP  r  r          LP  r  r      LP
                                                                                    (in.) (m) (dB) (in.) (m) (dB) (in.) (m) (dB)
defines STI and STIPA and is considered a normal speech
level. While 60 dBA at 1 m is documented as "normal" speech,
in areas where there is background noise, the Lombard effect                        0.1       0 117 4 0.10 85 11 0.28 76
causes a person to talk at an elevated volume. For this docu-                       0.2 0.01 111 5 0.13 83 12 0.30 75
ment, the committee chose to use 65 dBA as more representa-                         0.5 0.01 103 6 0.15 81 20 0.50 71
tive of speech levels during emergency situations. It is                            1.0 0.03 97 7 0.18 80 24 0.61 69
recommended that at least one field STI measurement be                              1.5 0.04 93 8 0.20 79 39.37 1.00 65
                                                                                    2.0 0.05 91 9 0.23 78 78.8 2.00 59
                                                                                    3.0 0.08 87 10 0.25 77

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-366                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

the STI or STIPA test signal during unoccupied or less occu-                       D.6.5.6.4 Documentation of the final results for each point
pied conditions.                                                                   should include the results of all three measurements and the
                                                                                   final corrected STI value. The manufacturer's software revision
D.6.5.2 Number of Tests. This test method requires three                           should also be included in the results documentation.
different measurements at each measurement point, typically
made during two site visits. The data for each measurement is                      D.7 Post Test Procedures.
saved in a format in accordance with the instrument manufac-
turer's requirements. The three data files are then post-                          D.7.1 Test Closure. Upon completion of all testing, the emer-
processed to arrive at the final corrected STI.                                    gency communications system should be returned to its normal
                                                                                   operating condition.
D.6.5.3 Occupied Ambient Sound Pressure Level Measure-
ment.                                                                              D.7.2 Results.

   D.6.5.3.1 At each measurement point in each ADS measure                            D.7.2.1 It is also not the intent of this test protocol to describe
   the occupied ambient sound pressure level.                                         how to interpret results or how to correct systems or environ-
   D.6.5.3.2 Save the measurement data in accordance with the                         ments that contribute to poor speech intelligibility. However,
                                                                                      depending on the instrument used, it might be possible to have
Y instrument manufacturer's requirements to permit post-                              data retained by the instrument to determine possible causes
L processing of the data.                                                             and their effects on STI results. Consult with the instrument
                                                                                      manufacturer to determine if the instrument has the capability
 D.6.5.3.3 Document the results on plans or forms in a way                            to display or save the intermediate STI modulation indices and
                                                                                      octave band measurement results and for instructions on how
N that accurately describes the measurement point and that                            to interpret those data.
                                                                                      D.7.2.2 For each ADS, summarize the results in accordance
   permits future testing at the same locations.                                      with the performance requirements of D.2.4.
                                                                                      D.7.2.3 For an ADS that had multiple measurement points or
O D.6.5.4 Unoccupied Ambient Sound Pressure Level Measure-                            that had multiple measurements at only one measurement
                                                                                      point, calculate the average per D.2.4 and list the average and
   ment.                                                                              the minimum measurement per D.2.4 in the results summary.
                                                                                      D.7.3 Documentation.
E D.6.5.4.1 At each measurement point in each ADS measure                             D.7.3.1 The test results should be fully documented and provi-
S the unoccupied ambient sound pressure level.                                        ded to the building owner, the emergency communications
                                                                                      system contractor, the system designer, the authority having
   D.6.5.4.2 Save the measurement data in accordance with the                         jurisdiction, and any other individual or organization deemed
                                                                                      appropriate.
U instrument manufacturer's requirements to permit post-                            D.7.3.2 In addition to the requirements for test documenta-
                                                                                      tion contained in NFPA 72, Chapter 10, the test results should
   processing of the data.                                                            include:

L  D.6.5.4.3 Document the results on plans or forms in a way                            (1) Building location and related descriptive facility infor-
A that accurately describes the measurement point and that                                     mation

   permits future testing at the same locations.                                        (2) Names, titles, and contact information for individuals
                                                                                               involved in test
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U D.6.5.5 Unoccupied STI Measurement.
ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} D.6.5.5.1 Set up the talkbox in accordance with Section D.4     (3) Dates and times of tests
                                                                                        (4) A list of testing instruments, including manufacturer's
   and start the STI or STIPA test signal.
                                                                                               name, model, serial number, and date of most recent
IV D.6.5.5.2 At each measurement point in each ADS measure                                     calibration
                                                                                        (5) Technical description of emergency communications
   the uncorrected STI.                                                                        system
                                                                                        (6) Identification of ADSs
D D.6.5.5.3 Save the measurement data in accordance with the

   instrument manufacturer's requirements to permit post-

IN processing of the data.

 D.6.5.5.4 Document the results on plans or forms in a way
   that accurately describes the measurement point and that

R permits future testing at the same locations.
O D.6.5.6 Post-Processing.
FD.6.5.6.1 The corrected STI is arrived at by post-processing of
the occupied ambient sound pressure level measurement, the                         (7) Locations of specific measurement points (in a list or on
unoccupied ambient sound pressure level measurement, and
the unoccupied STI measurement. In effect, the measured STI                        a set of drawings)
                                                                                   (8) Site definition of ambient sound pressure levels
(uncorrected) is being corrected by adding in the effects of the                   (9) STI/STIPA measurements at each measurement point
actual expected (occupied) ambient sound pressure level.
                                                                                   (10) Final corrected STI/STIPA values where the post-
                                                                                           processing procedure is used
D.6.5.6.2 The post-processing procedure or software provided                       (11) Indication of whether or not the test met the pass/fail
by the instrument manufacturer should be used to calculate
the final corrected STI for each measurement point.                                        criteria
                                                                                   (12) Record of system restoration
 D.6.5.6.3 Document the results on plans or forms in a way                         (13) Any additional information to assist with future evalua-
   that accurately describes the measurement point and that                                tion of system performance
permits future testing at the same locations.
                                                                                   D.7.3.3 If appropriate, the plans and specifications addressed
                                                                                   in D.3.3 should be updated based on the results of the test.

2019 Edition      Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   ANNEX F                                                                              72-367

Annex E Sample Ordinance Adopting NFPA 72                                       SECTION 4 That ordinance No. _________ of [jurisdiction]
                                                                                entitled [fill in the title of the ordinance or ordinances in effect at the
This annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document              present time] and all other ordinances or parts of ordinances in
but is included for informational purposes only.                                conflict herewith are hereby repealed.

E.1 The following sample ordinance is provided to assist a                         SECTION 5 That if any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
jurisdiction in the adoption of this Code and is not part of this               or phrase of this ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid
Code.                                                                           or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity

ORDINANCE NO. ____________                                                      or constitutionality of the remaining portions of this ordi-
                                                                                nance. The [governing body] hereby declares that it would have
         An ordinance of the [jurisdiction] adopting the 2019                   passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection, clause, or
   edition of NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code, and              phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
   documents listed in Chapter 2 of that Code; prescribing regula-              sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, and phrases be
   tions governing conditions hazardous to life and property from               declared unconstitutional.
   fire or explosion; providing for the issuance of permits and
   collection of fees; repealing Ordinance No. _______ of the                      SECTION 6 That the [jurisdiction's keeper of records] is hereby
                                                                                ordered and directed to cause this ordinance to be published.
Y [jurisdiction] and all other ordinances and parts of ordinances
                                                                                   [NOTE: An additional provision may be required to direct
   in conflict therewith; providing a penalty; providing a severabil-           the number of times the ordinance is to be published and to
                                                                                specify that it is to be in a newspaper in general circulation.
L ity clause; and providing for publication; and providing an                   Posting may also be required.]

   effective date.                                                                 SECTION 7 That this ordinance and the rules, regulations,
                                                                                provisions, requirements, orders, and matters established and
 N BE IT ORDAINED BY THE [governing body] OF THE [juris-                        adopted hereby shall take effect and be in full force and effect
O diction]:                                                                     [time period] from and after the date of its final passage and
                                                                                adoption.
      SECTION 1 That the NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signal-
                                                                                 Annex F Wiring Diagrams and Guide for Testing Fire Alarm
E ing Code, and documents adopted by Chapter 2, three (3)                                                           Circuits

   copies of which are on file and are open to inspection by the                This annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document
                                                                                but is included for informational purposes only.
S public in the office of the [jurisdiction's keeper of records] of the
                                                                                   Annex F provides guidance for testing of the various classes of
   [jurisdiction], are hereby adopted and incorporated into this                circuits identified in Chapter 12 of this edition of NFPA 72. Earlier
                                                                                editions of NFPA 72 have used different designations for these circuits.
U ordinance as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the               Designations found in previous editions (located in Annex C of
                                                                                NFPA 72, 2007 edition or earlier) can be compared with these corre-
   date on which this ordinance shall take effect, the provisions               sponding diagrams.
                                                                                F.1 General. Circuit class designations in this edition of the
L thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the [jurisdic-              Code are Class A, B, C, D, E, N, and X. Definitions can be
                                                                                found in Chapter 12. Additionally, special circuits unique to
   tion]. The same are hereby adopted as the Code of the [jurisdic-             supervising stations are designated as Types 4, 5, 6, and 7, and
                                                                                definitions can be found in Chapter 26.
A tion] for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
                                                                                   The wiring diagrams depicted in Figure F.2.1.1 through
   conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explo-                Figure F.3.14(k) are representative of typical circuits encoun-
                                                                                tered in the field and are not intended to be all-inclusive.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U sion and providing for issuance of permits and collection of
                                                                                   The noted symbols are as indicated in NFPA 170.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} fees.                                                        An individual point-identifying (i.e., addressable) fire alarm
                                                                                initiating device operates on a signaling line circuit and is
 ID SECTION 2 Any person who shall violate any provision of                     designated as a Class A, Class B, or Class X initiating device
                                                                                circuit. All fire alarm circuits must test free of grounds because
   this code or standard hereby adopted or fail to comply there-                metallic conductors will cause failure of the circuit when a
                                                                                second ground condition occurs on the same power source.
IV with; or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made

   thereunder; or who shall build in violation of any detailed state-
   ment of specifications or plans submitted and approved there-

D under; or fail to operate in accordance with any certificate or

   permit issued thereunder; and from which no appeal has been

IN taken; or who shall fail to comply with such an order as

   affirmed or modified by a court of competent jurisdiction,
   within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every

R such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a

   misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $ _____ nor
   more than $_____ or by imprisonment for not less than ______

Odays nor more than ______ days or by both such fine and
Fimprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation

   shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all
   such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such viola-
   tions or defects within a reasonable time; and when not other-
   wise specified the application of the above penalty shall not be
   held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   Each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.                                                  Nonmetallic circuit paths, such as wireless and fiber-optic,
                                                                                might still be designated as Class A, B, or X if they meet the
   SECTION 3 Additions, insertions, and changes -- that the                     other performance requirements of those pathways.
2019 edition of NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code,
is amended and changed in the following respects:                               The following initiating device circuits are illustrative of
                                                                                either alarm or supervisory signaling. Alarm-initiating devices
List Amendments                                                                 and supervisory initiating devices are not permitted to have

                                                                                identical annunciation at the fire alarm control unit.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-368                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Directly connected system smoke detectors, commonly refer-         fault occurs and alarm when detectors are actuated between
red to as two-wire detectors, should be listed as being electri-   the break and the fire alarm control unit. See Figure F.2.3.
cally and functionally compatible with the fire alarm control
unit and the specific subunit or module to which they are          F.2.4 Circuit-Powered (Two-Wire) Smoke Detectors for Class A
connected. If the detectors and the units or modules are not       Initiating Device Circuits. Disconnect conductor at a smoke
compatible, it is possible that, during an alarm condition, the    detector or remove where installed with a plug-in base at
detector's visible indicator will illuminate, but no change of     midpoint in the circuit. Operate a device on either side of the
state to the alarm condition will occur at the fire alarm control  device with the fault. Reset control unit and reconnect conduc-
unit. Incompatibility can also prevent proper system operation     tor or detector. Repeat test with a ground applied to either
at extremes of operating voltage, temperature, and other envi-     conductor in place of the disconnected conductor or removed
ronmental conditions.                                              device. Both operations should indicate audible and visual
                                                                   trouble, then alarm indication with subsequent restoration. See
Where two or more two-wire detectors with integral relays          Figure F.2.4.
are connected to a single initiating device circuit, and their
relay contacts are used to control essential building functions    F.2.5 Combination Alarm Initiating Device and Notification
(e.g., fan shutdown, elevator recall), it should be clearly noted  Appliance Circuits. Disconnect a conductor either at indicat-
                                                                   ing or initiating device. Actuate initiating device between the
Y that the circuit might be capable of supplying only enough       fault and the fire alarm control unit. Actuate additional smoke
L energy to support one detector/relay combination in an alarm     detectors between the device first actuated and the fire alarm
                                                                   control unit. Restore circuit, initiating devices, and fire alarm
mode. If control of more than one building function is             control unit. Confirm that all notification appliances on the
                                                                   circuit operate from the fire alarm control unit up to the fault
N required, each detector/relay combination used to control        and that all smoke detectors tested and their associated ancil-
                                                                   lary functions, if any, operate. See Figure F.2.5.
separate functions should be connected to separate initiating      F.2.6 Combination Alarm Initiating Device and Notification
                                                                   Appliance Circuits Arranged for Operation with Single Open
O device circuits, or they should be connected to an initiating    or Ground Fault. Testing of the circuit is similar to that descri-
                                                                   bed in F.2.5. Confirm that all notification appliances operate
device circuit that provides adequate power to allow all the       on either side of fault. See Figure F.2.6.
detectors connected to the circuit to be in the alarm mode
                                                                                  F               F          End-of-line
E simultaneously. During acceptance and reacceptance testing,                                        F device at
                                                                    Fire alarm       Operational
this feature should always be tested and verified.                 control units                             last device
                                                                                                       Nonoperational
S A loudspeaker is an alarm notification appliance, and, if                       F               F
U used as shown in the diagrams in Section F.2, the principle of                                         F

operation and supervision is the same as for other audible

L alarm notification appliances (e.g., bells and horns).
   The testing of supervised remote relays is to be conducted in

A the same manner as for notification appliances.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U F.2 Wiring Diagrams and Testing. When testing circuits, the

8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} correct wiring size, insulation type, and conductor fill should

ID be verified in accordance with the requirements of NFPA 70.

F.2.1 Testing Nonpowered, Hard-Wired Class A, B, or C Initiat-

IV ing Device Circuits. Disconnect conductor at device or control

unit, then reconnect. Temporarily connect a ground to either
leg of conductors, then remove ground. Both operations

D should indicate audible and visual trouble with subsequent

restoration at control unit.

IN F.2.1.1 Hard-Wired Alarm Initiating or Supervisory Initiating

Devices. Hard-wired alarm initiating devices (e.g., manual
station or valve supervisory switch), by their intended function,

R initiate alarm upon a conductor-to-conductor short. See Figure

F.2.1.1.

O F.2.2 Nonpowered Class A Circuits. Disconnect a conductor
Fat a device at midpoint in the circuit. Operate a device on
                                                                   End-of-line device within the control unit

                                                                   FIGURE F.2.1.1 Nonpowered Alarm Initiating or
                                                                   Supervisory Initiating Devices Connected to Hard-Wired and
                                                                   Class B Initiating Device Circuits.

either side of the device with the disconnected conductor.                                                 End-of-line
Reset fire alarm control unit and reconnect conductor. Repeat
test with a ground applied to either conductor in place of the                    S               S  S device after
disconnected conductor. Both operations should indicate audi-                                              last device
ble and visual trouble, then alarm or supervisory indication       Fire alarm        Operational     Nonoperational

with subsequent restoration.                                       control units

F.2.3 Circuit-Powered (Two-Wire) Smoke Detectors for Class A                      S               S  S
or B Initiating Device Circuits. Remove smoke detector where
installed with plug-in base or disconnect conductor from fire          End-of-line device within the control unit
alarm control unit beyond first device. Actuate smoke detector
per manufacturer's published instructions between fire alarm        FIGURE F.2.3 Circuit-Powered (Two-Wire) Smoke Detectors
control unit and circuit break. Restore detector or circuit, or       for Class A or B Initiating Device Circuits.
both. Fire alarm control unit should indicate trouble when

2019 Edition                  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                            ANNEX F                                                                              72-369

                                                             F.2.9 Alarm Notification Appliances Connected Class B (Two-
                                                             Wire) Circuits. Testing of the notification appliances connec-
   Operational              Operational

                                                             ted as Class B is similar to that described in F.2.3. See Figure
                                                             F.2.9.
S                        S  S
                                                             F.2.10 Alarm Notification Appliances Connected to Class A
                                                             (Four-Wire) Circuits. Testing of the notification appliances
                                                             connected as Class A is similar to that described in F.2.4. See
Fire alarm control unit                                      Figure F.2.10.
                                                             F.2.11 System with Supervised Audible Notification Appliance
FIGURE F.2.4 Circuit-Powered (Two-Wire) Smoke Detectors      Circuit and Unsupervised Visual Notification Appliance
for Class A Initiating Device Circuits.

                                                             Circuit. Testing of the notification appliances connected to
                                                             Class B is similar to that described in F.2.4. See Figure F.2.11.
NLY Fire alarm control unitOperational
                            Nonoperational

                            S

                                          End-of-line
                                          device at
                                          last device
O FIGURE F.2.5 Combination Alarm Initiating Device and                                                              End-of-line device
                                                                                                                    at power
Notification Appliance Circuits.                                                                                    supervision relay
                                                             Fire alarm control unit
                                                                                                                    S
E F.2.7 Class A or B Circuits with Four-Wire Smoke Detectors               S               S
S and End-of-Line Power Supervision Relay. Testing of the
                                                                              Operational                        Nonoperational
   circuit is similar to that described in F.2.3 and F.2.4. Disconnect
                                                             FIGURE F.2.7 Class B Circuits with Four-Wire Smoke
U a leg of the power supply circuit beyond the first device on theDetectors and End-of-Line Power Supervision Relay.

   circuit. Actuate initiating device between the fault and the fire              Operational                    Nonoperational

L alarm control unit. Restore circuits, initiating devices, and fire       S                   S                 S               End-

   alarm control unit. Audible and visual trouble should indicate                                                                of-line

A at the fire alarm control unit where either the initiating or                                                                  device

   power circuit is faulted. All initiating devices between the

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U circuit fault and the fire alarm control unit should actuate. In

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} addition, removal of a smoke detector from a plug-in-type base

ID can also break the power supply circuit. Where circuits contain

   various powered and nonpowered devices on the same initiat-

IV ing circuit, verify that the nonpowered devices beyond the

   power circuit fault can still initiate an alarm. A return loop
   should be brought back to the last powered device and the

D power supervisory relay to incorporate into the end-of-line

   device. See Figure F.2.7.

IN F.2.8 Class B Initiating Device Circuits with Four-Wire Smoke

   Detectors That Include Integral Individual Supervision Relays.
   Testing of the circuit is similar to that described in F.2.3 with

FOR the addition of a power circuit. See Figure F.2.8.
                                                                            Fire alarm control unit

                                                             FIGURE F.2.8 Class B Initiating Device Circuits with Four-
                                                             Wire Smoke Detectors That Include Integral Individual
                                                             Supervision Relays.

                                                                     Operational                  Nonoperational

                                                                     Fire alarm control unit                        End-of-line
                                                                                                                    device at
                                                                                                                    last device

   Operational              Operational                      FIGURE F.2.9 Alarm Notification Appliances Connected to
                                                             Class B (Two-Wire) Circuits.

                                                                                  Operational                    Operational

             S                                               End-of-line
                                                             device
              Fire alarm control unit                        within the
                                                             control unit
FIGURE F.2.6 Combination Alarm Initiating Device and
Notification Appliance Circuits Arranged for Operation with                       Fire alarm control unit
Single Open or Ground Fault.
                                                             FIGURE F.2.10 Alarm Notification Appliances Connected to
                                                             Class A (Four-Wire) Circuits.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-370                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

F.2.12 System with Supervised Audible and Visual Notification                       VS                   VS  VS
Appliance Circuits. Testing of the notification appliances
connected to Class B is similar to that described in F.2.4. See                    Fire alarm control unit
Figure F.2.12.
F.2.13 Series Notification Appliance Circuit That No Longer          FIGURE F.2.14 Supervised Series Supervisory Initiating
Meets Requirements of NFPA 72. An open fault in the circuit          Circuit with Sprinkler Supervisory Valve Switches Connected.
wiring should cause a trouble condition. See Figure F.2.13.

F.2.14 Supervised Series Supervisory Initiating Circuit with
Sprinkler Supervisory Valve Switches Connected That No
Longer Meets Requirements of NFPA 72. An open fault in the                      WF      WF                   VS
circuit wiring or operation of the valve switch (or any supervi-
                                                                                                                           End-of-line
                                                                                                                           device at
sory signal device) should cause a trouble condition. The classi-
fication of this circuit is now designated as Class D because the                                            last device
intended operation is performed. When the circuit fails, the
                                                                                Fire alarm control unit
Y indication at the fire control unit is the same as if the supervi-

sory switch were to open. Fire alarm initiating devices, includ-

L ing supervisory inputs, are no longer allowed to annunciate as

trouble conditions. See Figure F.2.14.

N F.2.15 Initiating Device Circuit with Parallel Waterflow Alarm
O Switches and Series Supervisory Valve Switch That No Longer

Meets Requirements of NFPA 72. An open fault in the circuit
wiring or operation of the valve switch should cause a trouble

E signal. See Figure F.2.15.
                                                                     FIGURE F.2.15 Initiating Device Circuit with Parallel
                                                                     Waterflow Alarm Switches and Series Supervisory Valve Switch.

                                                                     F.2.16 System Connected to Municipal Fire Alarm Master Box
                                                                     Circuit. Disconnect a leg of municipal circuit at master box.
                                                                     Verify alarm sent to public communications center. Disconnect
                                                                     leg of auxiliary circuit. Verify trouble condition on control unit.
                                                                     Restore circuits. Actuate control unit and send alarm signal to
                                                                     communications center. Verify control unit in trouble condi-
                                                                     tion until master box reset. See Figure F.2.16.
                                                                     F.2.17 Auxiliary Circuit Connected to Municipal Fire Alarm
                                                                     Master Box. For operation with a master box, an open or
                                                                     ground fault (where ground detection is provided) on the
                                                                     circuit should result in a trouble condition at the fire alarm
                                                                     control unit. A trouble signal at the fire alarm control unit
                                                                     should persist until the master box is reset. For operation with
                                                                     a shunt trip master box, an open fault in the auxiliary circuit
                                                                     should cause an alarm on the municipal system. See Figure
                                                                     F.2.17.
                                                                     F.3 Circuit Classes. Some testing laboratories and authorities
                                                                     having jurisdiction permitted systems to be classified as Class X
                                                                     by the application of two circuits operating in tandem. An
                                                                     example of this is to take two series circuits, Class B, and oper-
                                                                     ate them in tandem. The logic was that if a condition occurs on
                                                                     one of the circuits, the other series circuit remained operative.

                                                                        To understand the principles of the circuit, alarm receipt
                                                                     capability should be performed on a single circuit, and the
                                                                     Class type, based on the performance, should be indicated on
                                                                     the record of completion.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-AB3L68-U41SDE5BD47BC8} OperationalNonoperational

                                             End-of-line
                                             device
                                             at last
                                             device
  ID Fire alarm control unit
IV FIGURE F.2.11 Supervised Audible Notification Appliance

Circuit and Unsupervised Visual Notification Appliance

D Circuit.
IN Operational
FOR Fire alarm control unit  Nonoperational

                                                        End-of-line                 MB                   MB  MB
                                                        device
                                                        at last
                                                        device

                                             End-of-line
                                             device
                                             at last
                                             device

FIGURE F.2.12 Supervised Audible and Visual Notification                            Fire alarm control unit
Appliance Circuits.
                                                                     FIGURE F.2.16 System Connected to Municipal Fire Alarm
                                                                     Master Box Circuit.

Nonoperational               Nonoperational

                                                                     Auxiliary      MB                   MB  MB

                                                                     relay

                                                                     outputs

              Fire alarm control unit                                FIGURE F.2.17 Auxiliary Circuit Connected to Municipal
                                                                     Fire Alarm Master Box.
FIGURE F.2.13 Series Notification Appliance Circuit.

2019 Edition                 Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        ANNEX F                                                  72-371

F.3.1 Style 0.5. This signaling circuit operates as a series        F.3.5 Style 1.0 That No Longer Meets Requirements of
circuit in performance. This is identical to the historical series  NFPA 72. This is a series circuit identical to the diagram for
audible signaling circuits. Any type of break or ground in one      Style 0.5, except that the fire alarm system hardware has
of the conductors, or the internal of the multiple interface        enhanced performance. [See Figure F.3.5(a) and Figure F.3.5(b).]
device, and the total circuit is rendered inoperative.              A single earth ground can be placed on a conductor or multi-
                                                                    plex interface device, and the circuit and hardware will still
   To test and verify this type of circuit, either a conductor      have alarm operability.
should be lifted or an earth ground should be placed on a
conductor or a terminal point where the signaling circuit           If a conductor break or an internal fault occurs in the path-
attaches to the multiplex interface device.                         way of the circuit conductors, the entire circuit becomes inop-
                                                                    erative.
F.3.2 Style 0.5(a) (Class B) Series That No Longer Meets
Requirements of NFPA 72. Style 0.5(a) functions so that, when       To verify alarm receipt capability and the resulting trouble
a box is operated, the supervisory contacts open, making the
succeeding devices nonoperative while the operating box sends
a coded signal. Any alarms occurring in any successive devices

Y will not be received at the receiving station during this period.

See Figure F.3.2.

L F.3.3 Style 0.5(b) Shunt That No Longer Meets Requirements
N of NFPA 72. The contact closures when the device is operated

(and remains closed) to shunt out the remainder of the system

O until the code is complete. See Figure F.3.3.

F.3.4 Style 0.5(c) Positive Supervised Successive That No

E Longer Meets Requirements of NFPA 72. An open or ground

fault on the circuit should cause a trouble condition at the

L US control unit. See Figure F.3.4.
                                                                    signal, place an earth ground on one of the conductors or at
                                                                    the point where the signaling circuit attaches to the multiplex
                                                                    interface device. One of the transmitters or an initiating device
                                                                    should then be placed into alarm.
                                                                    F.3.6 Typical McCulloh Loop. This is the central station
                                                                    McCulloh redundant-type circuit and has alarm receipt capabil-
                                                                    ity on either side of a single break. See Figure F.3.6.
                                                                    F.3.6.1 To test, lift one of the conductors and operate a trans-
                                                                    mitter or initiating device on each side of the break. This activ-
                                                                    ity should be repeated for each conductor.
                                                                    F.3.6.2 Place an earth ground on a conductor and operate a
                                                                    single transmitter or initiating device to verify alarm receipt
                                                                    capability and trouble condition for each conductor.
                                                                    F.3.6.3 Repeat the instructions of F.3.6.1 and F.3.6.2 at the
                                                                    same time, verify alarm receipt capability, and verify that a trou-
                                                                    ble condition results.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} Supervisory
    ID contacts                              End-of-line                          Field                              Field
   IV Coding                                 device at                        control unit                       control unit
                                             last device
                   contacts
                Fire alarm control unit

D FIGURE F.3.2 Style 0.5(a) Series.
                                                                     Central  Fire alarm control unit
                                                                    computer

   R IN Coding                                                      FIGURE F.3.5(a) Style 1.0 (Class B).
FOcontacts
                                                                    FIGURE F.3.5(b) Typical Transmitter Layout.

Fire alarm control unit  Supervisory
                         contacts

FIGURE F.3.3 Style 0.5(b) Shunt.

    Supervision by internal
    electromechanical
    device

MB                       MB                  MB                                      Fire alarm control unit

    Fire alarm control unit                                         End-of-line
                                                                    device within
FIGURE F.3.4 Style 0.5(c) Positive Supervised Successive.           the control unit

                                                                    FIGURE F.3.6 Typical McCulloh Loop.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-372                                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

F.3.7 Class B (Formerly Style 3.0). This is a parallel circuit in           Operational                                     Operational
which multiplex interface devices transmit signal and operating
power over the same conductors. (See Figure F.3.7.) The multi-                                                 Transponder
plex interface devices might be operable up to the point of a               Fire alarm control unit
single break. Verify by lifting a conductor and causing an alarm
condition on one of the units between the central alarm unit
and the break. Either lift a conductor to verify the trouble
condition or place an earth ground on the conductors. Test for
all the valuations shown on the signaling table.

On ground-fault testing, verify alarm receipt capability by
actuating a multiplex interface initiating device or a transmit-
ter.
F.3.8 Style 3.5 That No Longer Meets Requirements of
NFPA 72. Follow the instructions for Class B (formerly Style                Coded wheel                                     Coded wheel

Y 3.0) and verify the trouble conditions by either lifting a                End-of-line       Shunt noninterfering
                                                                            device within
conductor or placing a ground on the conductor. See Figure                  the control unit

L F.3.8.
N F.3.9 Class B (Formerly Style 4.0). Follow the instructions for

Class B (formerly Style 3.0) and include a loss of carrier where

O the signal is being used. See Figure F.3.9.

F.3.10 Style 4.5 That No Longer Meets Requirements of

E NFPA 72. Follow the instructions for Style 3.5. Verify alarm

receipt capability while lifting a conductor by actuating a multi-

S ple interface device or transmitter on each side of the break.

See Figure F.3.10.

U F.3.11 Class A (Formerly Style 5.0). Verify the alarm receipt

capability and trouble annunciation by lifting a conductor and

L actuating a multiplex interfacing device or a transmitter on

each side of the break.
                                                                              Fire alarm control unit

                                                                            FIGURE F.3.10 Style 4.5 (Class B).

                                                                            F.3.11.1 Ground Test on Class A (Formerly Style 5.0) Circuit.
                                                                            For the earth ground verification, place an earth ground and
                                                                            certify alarm receipt capability and trouble annunciation by
                                                                            actuating a single multiplex interfacing device or a transmitter.
                                                                            See Figure F.3.11.1.
                                                                            F.3.12 Class A (Formerly Style 6.0). Follow the instructions
                                                                            from F.3.11. Verify the trouble annunciation for the various
                                                                            combinations. See Figure F.3.12.
                                                                            F.3.13 Class A with Circuit Isolators. For the portions of the
                                                                            circuits electrically located between the monitoring points of
                                                                            circuit isolators, follow the instructions for a Class X circuit. It
                                                                            should be clearly noted that the alarm receipt capability for
                                                                            remaining portions of the circuit protection isolators is not the
                                                                            capability of the entire circuit but is permitted with enhanced
                                                                            system capabilities. See Figure F.3.13.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB368-41DE5BD47BC8} Operational
      DIV Transponder                          Nonoperational
  IN Fire alarm control unit
                                                               End-of-line
FIGURE F.3.7 Class B (Formerly Style 3.0).                     device at
                                                               last device

FOR Operational                                                             Operational                                     Operational

                                               Nonoperational

                                  Transponder                  End-of-line                                    Transponder
        Fire alarm control unit                                device at    Fire alarm control unit
                                                               last device

FIGURE F.3.8 Style 3.5.                                                     N FIGURE F.3.11.1 Class A (Formerly Style 5.0).

        Operational                            Nonoperational               Operational                                     Operational

                                       Transponder             End-of-line                                       Transponder
            Fire alarm control unit                            device at      Fire alarm control unit
                                                               last device
FIGURE F.3.9 Class B (Formerly Style 4.0).                                  FIGURE F.3.12 Style 6.0 (Class A).

2019 Edition             Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                   ANNEX F                                                                            72-373

                                                   Circuit isolators                              RFT/R
                                                                                                  RFT/R
Operational                           Operational                                                                Supervising
                                                                                                                    station
                                                                      Type 4 RFT/R

                         Transponder

Fire alarm control unit                                               Type 5       RFT/R                                RFT/R

FIGURE F.3.13 Class A with Circuit Isolators.

                                                                              Protected premises                        Supervising
                                                                                                                           station

                                                                              RFT/R = Radio frequency transmitter/receiver

LY F.3.14 Class X (Formerly Style 7.0). Follow the instructions

  for testing of Class A (formerly Style 6.0) for alarm receipt

N capability and trouble annunciation. See Figure F.3.14(a)

  through Figure F.3.14(k).

 O NOTE: Some manufacturers of this type of equipment have

  isolators as part of the base assembly. Therefore, in the field,

E this component might not be readily observable without the
S assistance of the manufacturer's representative.

·
                                                                      FIGURE F.3.14(c) Two-Way RF Multiplex Systems.

                                                                                                                        Optional unlimited

                                                                                          RARSR                  RARSR

                                                                      RAT                                                      RASSR

                                                                                          RARSR                  RARSR

                                                                      Protected premises  Physically separated

{C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41DE5BD47BC8} Operational
                                                                              RAT = Radio alarm transmitter
                                                                              RARSR = Radio alarm repeater station receiver
                                                                              RASSR = Radio alarm supervising station receiver

                                                                      FIGURE F.3.14(d) One-Way Radio Alarm System.

                                      Operational                     Type 6                      RARSR                     RASSR
                                                                              RAT                                           RASSR

     IV Transponder                                                   Type 7              RARSR                  RARSR          RASSR
                                                                              RAT         RARSR                  RARSR          RASSR
  Fire alarm control unit

D FIGURE F.3.14(a) Class X (Formerly Style 7.0).
     IN R
FOR D                                 R                                             RAT = Radio alarm transmitter
                                                                                    RARSR = Radio alarm repeater station receiver
R                        D            R            D                                RASSR = Radio alarm supervising station receiver

                                                                      FIGURE F.3.14(e) One-Way Radio Alarm System (Type 6
                                                                      and Type 7).

R                                     R

                                             CU                                                                                      2019 Edition

 CU = Wireless control unit
         (with power supply and standby power)

 R = Wireless repeater
         (with power supply and standby power)

 D = Wireless initiating, indicating, and control device
         (either primary battery or primary standby battery)

FIGURE F.3.14(b) Low-Power Radio (Wireless) Fire Alarm
System.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-374                                           NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

FACU          Style 4 fiber network where                   Break  FACU                      FACU
FACU          the control unit has a two-way                  or   FACU                      FACU
FACU          path communications capability.                                                FACU
              Multimode fiber is used for short             open
              distances, and single mode
              fiber is used for long distances.                                                                         Break
              Repeaters are used to increase                                                                              or
              distances as needed.
                                                                                                                        open

                                                                   FACU

              CC                                                                         CC

           CC = Control center
           FACU = Fire alarm control unit

Y FIGURE F.3.14(f) Style 4 Fiber Network.
                                                                   Style 7 fiber network where the control unit has a two-way
                                                                   path communications capability with the two breaks now
                                                                   breaking into two LANs, both functioning as independent
                                                                   networks with the same Style 7 capabilities.

                                                                                 CC = Control center
                                                                                 FACU = Fire alarm control unit

                                                            FIGURE F.3.14(i) Style 7 Fiber Network (Two LANs).
              NL FACU
              E O FACUBreak                                        FACU                      FACU  Break
              S FACUor                                             FACU                      FACU    or

                  open                                                                             open
      L U CC
A Style 4 fiber network where the control unit has a two-way       FACU                      FACU

path communications capability. A single break separates

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U the system into two LANs, both with Style 4 capabilities.
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} CC = Control center
 ID FACU = Fire alarm control unit

FIGURE F.3.14(g) Style 4 Fiber Network (Single Break).
  DIV FACU                                                                                     CC
  IN FACU
FOR FACU                                                    Style 7 fiber network where the control unit has a two-way
                                                            path communications capability, with one break. System
                                                            remains as one LAN and meets Style 7.

                                                                           CC = Control center
                                                                           FACU = Fire alarm control unit

                                                            FIGURE F.3.14(j) Style 7 Fiber Network (One LAN).

                  Break                                            FACU                      FACU
                    or                                             FACU                      FACU

                  open

                           Break
                             or

                           open

                                        CC                         FACU                      FACU

Style 4 fiber network where the control unit has a two-way                                     CC
path communications capability. A double break isolates
the control units and the control center in this case.      Style 7 fiber network where the control unit has a two-way
There is one LAN and one isolated control unit operating    path communications capability.
on its own. Control center is isolated completely with no
communications with the network.                                           CC = Control center
                                                                           FACU = Fire alarm control unit
          CC = Control center
          FACU = Fire alarm control unit                    FIGURE F.3.14(k) Style 7 Fiber Network.

FIGURE F.3.14(h) Style 4 Fiber Network (Double Break).

2019 Edition             Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                ANNEX G                                                          72-375

Annex G Guidelines for Emergency Communication                                    (4) There are additional methods to alert occupants to an
                Strategies for Buildings and Campuses                        emergency: disruption of routine activities, tactile meth-
This annex is not part of the requirements of this NFPA document but         ods, social networks, and face-to-face.
is included for informational purposes only.                          (5) An alert signal should be accompanied by a clear, consis-
                                                                             tent, concise, and candid warning message.
G.1 The material in this annex is based on the National Insti-                    (6) If selected, an alert should be tested for its success in
tute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and Fire Protection                       getting occupants' attention in the event of an emergency
Research Foundation research Guidance Document: Emergency                         and used as part of building- or campus-wide training.
Communication Strategies for Buildings, by Erica Kuligowski, Ph.D.
and H. Omori, 2014, as adapted by the NFPA ECS TC.                                G.2.2 Warnings. Warning messages should provide informa-
                                                                                  tion to the occupants on the state of the emergency and what
   The purpose of this annex is to provide guidance to system                     they are supposed to do in response to this emergency. The
designers, building managers, and/or building emergency               warning message should come after an alert signal is given and
   personnel responsible for emergency communication on how                       can be provided via visual or audible means. However, before
   to create and disseminate messages using basic communication                   such guidance on message format for visual and audible
   modes (audible and/or visual technology). The guidance                         messages can be provided, it is vital to provide guidance on the
                                                                                  content of the warning message itself.
Y provided here is taken directly from a report published by the
L National Institute of Standards and Technology, which was                       G.2.2.1 The Message. Regardless of the method used to
                                                                                  disseminate the warning message, there are certain characteris-
   based on a review of 162 literature sources from a variety of                  tics that are required of an effective warning message. These
                                                                                  are included here:
N social science and engineering disciplines (Kuligowski et al.
                                                                                   (1) Message Content.
   2012) and the prioritization of the specific findings extracted                        (a) A warning message should contain five important
                                                                                                  topics to ensure that occupants have sufficient
O from each literature source.                                                                    information to respond.
      This document first presents guidance on how to create and                                  i. Who is providing the message? (i.e., the
                                                                                                         source of the message)
E disseminate emergency information in the face of rapid-onset                                    ii. What should people do? (i.e., what actions
                                                                                                         occupants should take in response to the
   disasters1 -- providing guidance on the dissemination of alert                                        emergency and, if necessary, how to take
                                                                                                         these actions)
S signals, the creation of the warning message, the formatting of                                 iii. When do people need to act? (In rapid-onset
                                                                                                         events, the "when" is likely to be "immedi-
   messages for both visual and audible means, and the dissemina-                                        ately.")
                                                                                                  iv. Where is the emergency taking place? (i.e.,
U tion of the warning message. This document then provides                                               who needs to act and who does not)
                                                                                                  v. Why do people need to act? (including a
   examples of emergency messages (i.e., message templates) for                                          description of the hazard and its dangers/
                                                                                                         consequences)
L five different types of emergency scenarios. These message                              (b) The source of the message should be someone
                                                                                                  who is perceived as credible by the occupants
   templates can be altered to fit the needs of your occupants, as                        (c) Building managers, campus managers, and emer-
                                                                                                  gency personnel should understand the affected
A well as the type of emergency that has occurred and type of                                     population and, from this understanding, develop
                                                                                                  a database of possible trusted sources (as well as
   technology used to disseminate the alerts/messages.                                            backup sources).

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U G.2 Guidance on Emergency Communication Strategies. This       (2) Message Structure.
                                                                                          (a) Message order for short messages (e.g., 90-charac-
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} section provides guidance for managers, emergency personnel,                ters) should be the following:

ID alarm system manufacturers, codes/standards committees, or

   others responsible for emergency communication on the ways

IV in which alerts and warning messages should be created,

   formatted, and disseminated. The guidance is divided into two
   main parts: guidance on alerts and guidance on warning

D messages. Although these two parts often get confused, it is

   important to distinguish between the purpose of an alert and a

IN warning message.

   An alert is meant to grab peoples' attention, notifying them that
    an emergency is taking place and that there is important infor-

R mation, which will be provided to them. The purpose of a warn-

    ing message is to give that important information to occupants.

OGuidance on the construction and dissemination of both alerts
Fand warnings is provided here.
G.2.1 Alerts. It is imperative to disseminate an alert to let                            i. Source
occupants know that a warning message will follow. Regardless                            ii. Guidance on what people should do
of whether the warning message is provided audibly, visually, or                         iii. Hazard (why)
via tactile means, an alert is necessary to gain people's attention                      iv. Location (where)
and should be provided separately from the warning message.                              v. Time.
An effective alert should include the following characteristics:                  (b) Message order for longer messages should be the
(1) Alerts should be significantly different from ambient                                following:
                                                                                         i. Source
       sounds.                                                                           ii. Hazard
(2) Buildings should reduce background noise when initiat-                               iii. Location
                                                                                         iv. Guidance
       ing audible alerts.                                                               v. Time
(3) Flashing, rather than static lights, preferably one standard

       color for all buildings, can be used to gain attention to
       visual warning messages.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-376                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        (c) Numbered lists can help to chronologically organ-          warning, understand the warning, perceive warn-
              ize multiple steps in a process                          ing credibility and risk, and respond appropriately.
        (d) For limited message length, message writers could          (6) Noticing and Reading the Warning.
              draft the message in a bulleted form; each of the
              five topics in the warning should be separated as its    (a) Place the emergency sign in a location where
              own bullet point                                                people will notice it and be able to read it from
      (e) Distinct audiences should be addressed separately                   their original (pre-emergency) location.
              in the message (or in multiple messages)
(3) Message Language (or Wording).                                     (b) Signs will be reliably conspicuous within
                                                                              15 degrees of the direct line of sight.
        (a) Messages should be written using short, simple
                                                                       (c) Text is easier to read when written with a mixture
                                                                       of upper and lower case letters rather than the use
              words, omitting unnecessary words or phrases.            of all capitals.
        (b) Messages should be written using active voice,             (d) The recommended relationship for older adults
              present tense, avoiding hidden verbs.                                  with lower visual acuity is D = 100 * h, providing a
      (c) Messages should be written using short, simple,                            more conservative result, and ensuring that a
                                                                                     larger population will be able to read the emer-
              and clear sentences, avoiding double negatives and                     gency message.
                                                                             (e) A stroke-to-width ratio of the letters is suggested as
  Y exceptions to exceptions; main ideas should be                                   1:5 (generally), with a ratio of 1:7 suggested for
  L placed before exceptions and conditions.                                         lighter letters on a darker background.
                                                                             (f) Building managers, campus managers, or emer-
      (d) Emergency messages should be written at a sixth                            gency personnel should consult the ADA Stand-
                                                                                     ards for Accessible Design (U.S. Department of
  N grade reading level or lower. An emergency                                       Justice 2010) for additional requirements on
                                                                                     signage.
              message can be evaluated for its reading level using           (g) Contrast between the text and the background
              computer software and/or a simple calculation.                         should be at least 30 percent, although recommen-
                                                                                     ded values could be as high as 60 percent.
 O (e) Emergency messages should be written without the                      (h) The use of pictorials (in lieu of or in addition to
              use of jargon and false cognates.                                      text) can also bring attention to the sign.
                                                                             (i) Message providers should ensure that emergency
 E (f) Emergency messages should be provided in the                                  information is not blocked by other signs or infor-
              language of the predominant affected populace. If                      mation.
  S there is a possibility of isolated groups that do not              (7) Comprehending, Believing, and Personalizing the Warn-
              speak the predominant language, multilingual                   ing.
  U messages should be provided. It is expected that                         (a) Printed text should accompany symbols or pictori-
              small groups of transients unfamiliar with the                         als used in visual warnings; a minimum number of
  L predominant language will be picked up in the                                    words should be used to accompany graphics.
              traffic flow in the event of an emergency and are              (b) Diagrams that display a series of sequential steps
  A not likely to be in an isolated situation.                                       are more successful for comprehension of a proc-
(4) Multiple Messages.                                                               ess than one single graphic.
                                                                             (c) A color-contrasted word or statement should be
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (a) Building managers, campus managers, and emer-                used for text that should be read first and/or be
     8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} gency personnel should anticipate the need to              perceived as more urgent than the rest, unless
  ID write more than one emergency message through-                                  color is used for other reasons (e.g. bilingual text).
              out a disaster, including feedback messages or                 (d) A warning message can increase in perceived credi-
  IV updates.                                                                        bility and risk if occupants are shown that others
      (b) In update messages, occupants should be told why                           are also responding.
              the information has changed, to ensure that the                (e) Simultaneously displayed text (discrete messages)
  D new message is viewed as credible.                                               is preferred rather than a sequentially displayed
      (c) Provide feedback messages after a "non-event" to                           message.
  IN inform occupants that the alert signal and warning                      (f) Simultaneously displayed text can also be used for
              system operated and worked as planned and the                          bilingual messages, especially if care is taken to
              reasons why the event did not occur.                                   differentiate the text of one language from the text
      (d) Building managers, campus managers, and emer-                              of the other language.
  Rgency personnel should test emergency messages                            (g) Limit the use of flashing words on visual message
              with the affected population.                                          displays.
                                                                       (8) Audible Warnings.
O (5) Visual Warnings.
F(a) Messages that are displayed visually will have differ-

              ent capabilities and limitations than those dissemi-
              nated audibly. Message creators should consider
              different factors and make different types of deci-
              sions based upon the dissemination method. The
              first consideration is the type of visual technology
              that will be used to disseminate the messages,
              which can include textual visual displays, SMS text
              messages, computer pop-ups, email, Internet              (a) There are specific warning technologies that only
              websites, news (TV broadcast), or streaming broad-       (or primarily) affect the aural sense, including
              cast over the web. Depending upon the technology         public address systems (voice notification systems),
              chosen to display visual warning messages, guid-         automated voice dialing, satellite/AM/FM radio
              ance is provided here on message displays to             broadcasts, satellite/off-air television broadcasts,
              enable occupants to see or notice the displayed          and tone alert radios. Whereas visual technologies

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                            ANNEX G                                                               72-377

can limit message length, audible warnings are                          (d) Warning messages should be repeated at intervals,
often limited only by the attention capabilities of                     rather than consecutively.
the audience. In other words, an audible message                        (e) Warning messages should be disseminated as early
can play for long periods of time with these tech-                      as possible.
nology types, and the message creator and source                        (f) Face-to-face communication should accompany
must be careful to provide all important informa-                       other audible or visual technologies.
tion in an appropriate length of time.                                  (g) Messages should be disseminated using a combina-
(b) In this section, guidance will be given for methods                 tion of both push and pull technologies.
to increase the likelihood that an individual will                      (h) Push communication2 is most important to use for
perceive, or hear, the message. Following this,                         alert signals as well as initial warning messages.
                   guidance will be provided that can increase
                   comprehension of the message for audible             G.3 Emergency Message Templates. Rapid-onset emergencies
                   messages, as well as the ways in which to increase   often come with little warning and can have a major impact on
                   credibility and risk assessment of the event when    communities. In order to provide clear, effective instructions
                   the warning is presented audibly.                    for a threatened population, it is important to create message
                                                                        templates ahead of time for a variety of different emergencies.
Y (9) Perception.
  L (a) Other, non-alert/warning voices in the back-                       This section provides examples of message templates for five
                                                                        types of emergency, using various forms of emergency commu-
                   ground should be reduced or eliminated.              nication technology. All bracketed text can be altered and
                                                                        replaced with text that better suits the needs of the occupants,
  N (b) Any voice announcements should also be accompa-                 emergency scenario, emergency response strategies, and the
                   nied by simultaneous visual text.                    technology being used. Please see Kuligowski and Omori
   (10) Comprehending, Believing, and Personalizing the Warn-           (2014) for more information on the process associated with the
                                                                        development of these templates. Each template follows the
  O ing.                                                                guidance presented in this document.
                                                                        G.3.1 Scenario 1 -- Fire in a building, partial evacuation strat-
            (a) Letters are more difficult to identify in speech than   egy, building-wide public address announcements. Scenario 1
                                                                        is a fire located on the 10th floor of a 20-story building. Individ-
   E numbers, which are more difficult than colors.                     uals are unable to use elevators in this scenario, except for
                                                                        those who are unable to negotiate the stairs, in which case
            (b) People making announcements (or other message           building staff or fire fighters will assist them using the freight
                                                                        elevator(s).
   S sources) should not be heavily accented and
                                                                           Protective actions: Occupants on floors 9, 10, and 11 are told
                   should speak with a rate of approximately 175        to evacuate to the 8th floor (two floors below the fire floor). All
                                                                        other occupants are provided with a message to remain on
   U words per minute.                                                  their floor. Therefore, in this scenario, two different types of
                                                                        messages are required to be provided simultaneously to occu-
            (c) Audible warnings can be delivered using a live          pants, depending upon the floor on which they are located:
                                                                        one message will be disseminated to floors 9, 10, and 11, while
   L voice, dynamic voice (generated by text-to-speech                  a different message will be disseminated simultaneously to all
                                                                        other floors.
                   software), or using prerecorded voice.
                                                                           Technology used to disseminate the message: The building-wide
  A (d) The live voice and dynamic voice methods provide                public address system, which is capable of providing different
                   the benefit of messages that can be updated with     messages to different floors (using a live voice or a dynamic
                                                                        voice).
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U new information while also conveying an appropri-   G.3.1.1 Message Templates for Scenario 1:
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ate level of urgency, if necessary.         (1) Building-wide announcement to Floors 9, 10, and 11:
  ID (e) Dynamic and prerecorded voice methods provide
                   the benefits of easily repeating the played messages        "Attention [floors 9, 10, and 11]. This is your [Building
   IV for longer periods of time and not relying on the
                   voice announcer training or stress level while deliv-
                   ering the message.
  D (f) For the voice itself, best results will vary, depending
                   on the specific location -- for example, in outdoor
   IN applications, it has been shown that a male voice
                   will provide better intelligibility, as the naturally
                   lower frequency of the male voice travels better.
                   Inversely, in an interior application, where the
   Rbackground ambient noise is typically in the same
                   lower frequencies, a female voice tends to pene-
 O trate better, as it is more distinct from the ambient.

F (g) Urgency measures should be used selectively to
emphasize the more dangerous, immediate, life-                          Safety Officer, Joe Smith]. A fire has been reported on
threatening situations (since overuse can lead to
non-response in future disasters).                                      the [10th floor] of the building. Everyone on the [9th,
                                                                        10th, and 11th floors] should move to the [8th floor] to
(11) Dissemination of the Warning Message.                              be protected from heat and smoke, since heat and smoke

(a) Use multiple channels to disseminate the warning                           can creep into nearby floors during a fire. Use the stairs
       message, including visual, audible, and tactile                         immediately. Do not use the elevators. Those who need
       means.                                                                  help getting to the 8th floor, please wait inside the stair-
                                                                               well [or go to the freight elevator lobby]."
(b) A warning message should be repeated at least                       (2) Building-wide announcement to all other floors: "Atten-
       once, with some research advocating for message                         tion. This is your [Building Safety Officer, Joe Smith]. A
       repetition of at least three times.                                     fire has been reported on the [10th floor] of the build-
                                                                               ing. Please wait on your floor. At this time, you are safer
(c) Messages should be stated in full, and then repea-                         remaining on your floor than leaving the building,
       ted in full, rather than repeating statements within                    because this building is designed to confine the fire [e.g.,
       the same message.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-378               NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

locally or to the 10th floor only]. Do not use the elevators                                               BASEMENT IS AVAILABLE...SEEK SHELTER ON THE
for any reason. We will give you further instructions, if the                                              LOWEST FLOOR OF THE BUILDING IN AN INTERIOR
situation changes."                                                                                        HALLWAY OR ROOM SUCH AS A CLOSET. USE BLANKETS
                                                                                                           OR PILLOWS TO COVER YOUR BODY AND ALWAYS STAY
G.3.2 Scenario 2 -- Fire in a building, full evacuation strategy,                                          AWAY FROM WINDOWS."
building-wide public address announcement, and cell phone
text message. Scenario 2 is a fire located on the second floor                                             IF IN MOBILE HOMES OR VEHICLES....EVACUATE
of a 20-story building in which smoke is traveling up the buil-                                            THEM AND GET INSIDE A SUBSTANTIAL SHELTER. IF NO
ding's air-conditioning/venting system, causing the need for a                                             SHELTER IS AVAILABLE...LIE FLAT IN THE NEAREST
full-building evacuation. Individuals are unable to use elevators                                          DITCH OR OTHER LOW SPOT AND COVER YOUR HEAD
in this scenario, except for those who are unable to negotiate                                             WITH YOUR HANDS."
the stairs, in which case building staff or fire fighters will assist
them using the freight elevator(s).                                                                           (Examples found here: http://www.nws.noaa.gov/view/valid-
                                                                                                           Prods.php?prod=TOR)
   Protective actions: Occupants on all floors are requested to
evacuate the building, known as a full-building evacuation.                                                   Technologies used to disseminate the message: A campus-wide
                                                                                                           siren system with audible messaging capabilities. Also, a
Y Technologies used to disseminate the message: The building-wide                                          140-character Twitter3 message should be disseminated as well
L public address system, which is capable of providing different                                           for this emergency.
                                                                                                           G.3.3.1 Message Templates for Scenario 3:
messages to different floors (using a live voice or a dynamic                                              (1) Campus-wide audible messaging system): Alert tone precedes

N voice). Also, a 90-character text message alert to cell phone                                                   message [siren]. "This is [Joan Smith, Chief of Campus
                                                                                                                  Police]. A tornado has been sighted on the ground at
users in the building.                                                                                            [20th Street and Mockingbird Lane]. The tornado is
                                                                                                                  strong and is moving toward the college campus at high
O G.3.2.1 Message Templates for Scenario 2:                                                                       speeds (with winds over 160 mph). High winds and large,
                                                                                                                  flying debris can flatten a building in a storm of this
(1) Building-wide public address system: "Attention. This is                                                      magnitude. Take shelter now. Get inside now, go to the
                                                                                                                  lowest level, and get away from windows. Stay there until
 E [Chief Smith from the Springfield Fire Department]. A                                                          further instructions."
                                                                                                           (2) Twitter message (140 characters): "Take shelter inside a
       fire has been reported on the [second floor] of the build-                                                 building NOW. Go to the lowest level, get away from
                                                                                                                  windows. Strong tornado near campus." [Include hashtag
 S ing. Everyone must leave the building now to avoid                                                             in 140 characters.]
                                                                                                              Note: The source of the message is not included in this Twitter
       contact with the fire's heat and smoke. Go NOW to your                                              message since the source will be evident from the Twitter message layout.
                                                                                                           G.3.4 Scenario 4 -- Chemical spill in a building, building-wide
 U closest stair and leave the building. People who cannot                                                 public address announcements, and building-wide email
                                                                                                           messages. Scenario 4 is a chemical spill in a 40-story office
       use the stairs should go to the freight elevator lobby for                                          building. The event was an accident and occurred on the 1st
                                                                                                           floor of the building. There is the possibility of the chemical
 L help."                                                                                                  negatively affecting individuals on the lower floors of the build-
                                                                                                           ing. Individuals are unable to use elevators in this scenario. For
(2) Cell phone text message (90 characters): "Evacuate build-                                              those who are unable to negotiate the stairs, only one freight
                                                                                                           elevator will be used with fire-fighter assistance.
 A ing now. It is on fire. Go to freight elevator if you need                                                 Protective actions: Occupants are advised to perform different
                                                                                                           actions based upon the floor on which they are located. First,
       help."                                                                                              occupants on the first floor are advised to evacuate the build-
                                                                                                           ing. At the same time, occupants on floors 2 through 10 are
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Note: A description of the hazard (a more detailed "why" statement)
ID is not included in this message due to character limits. Also, the source

is not listed. It is possible that the source will already be identified in the
"From" or "FRM" line of the text message. If message contents are limi-

IV ted, there is always the option to send a follow-up text message that

provides more information or that continues the previous message. Also

D remember that some phones (i.e. non-smart phones) could display longer

text messages in reverse chronological order.

IN G.3.3 Scenario 3 -- Tornado imminent on a college campus,

campus-wide audible messaging system, and Twitter message.
Scenario 3 is a tornado imminent on a college campus.

R Protective actions: The individuals on the college campus are

instructed to "shelter in place." Additionally, the National

O Weather Service provides examples of protective actions (inclu-
Fded below):
   Example 1: "TAKE COVER NOW. FOR YOUR PROTEC-                    advised to travel to locations higher in the building -- prefera-
TION MOVE TO AN INTERIOR ROOM ON THE LOWEST                        bly to floors 20 through 30. Concurrently, occupants on floors
FLOOR OF A STURDY BUILDING."                                       11 and above are advised to remain in place. Therefore, in this
                                                                   scenario, three different types of messages are required to be
                                                                   provided simultaneously to occupants, depending upon the
   Example 2: "TAKE COVER NOW. MOVE TO AN INTERIOR                 floor on which they are located: one message will be dissemina-
ROOM ON THE LOWEST FLOOR OF A STURDY BUILDING.                     ted to the first floor, one message will be disseminated to floors
AVOID WINDOWS. IF IN A MOBILE HOME...A VEHICLE OR                  2 through 10, and a third message will be disseminated to all
OUTDOORS...MOVE TO THE CLOSEST SUBSTANTIAL                         other floors.
SHELTER AND PROTECT YOURSELF FROM FLYING
DEBRIS."
                                                                                                           Technologies used to disseminate the message: The building public
                                                                   address system, which is capable of providing different message
   Example 3: "THE SAFEST PLACE TO BE DURING A                     to different floors (using a live voice or a dynamic voice). Addi-
TORNADO IS IN A BASEMENT. GET UNDER A WORK-                        tionally, an email message (through the company's email
BENCH OR OTHER PIECE OF STURDY FURNITURE. IF NO

2019 Edition         Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                    ANNEX G                                                                72-379

system) should be disseminated to employees on floors 2                          G.4 Future Direction. The purpose of this report is to provide
through 10 to relocate to a higher floor. [Note: Do not worry                    guidance to system designers, building managers, and building
about an email to other employees, although in an actual emergency,              emergency personnel responsible for emergency communica-
that would be necessary.]                                                    tion on how to create and disseminate effective messages using
                                                                                 basic communication modes (audible vs. visual technology), as
G.3.4.1                                                                          well as examples of emergency messages (message templates)

(1) Building-wide public address system: [first floor occu-                  for five different types of emergency scenarios. START (2013)
pants] "This is your [Building Manager, Joe Smith]. A                            contains additional message templates for similar types of
dangerous chemical has spilled on the first floor. The                           rapid-onset events for both limited- and unlimited-character
chemical makes it difficult to see and can cause trouble                     length dissemination technologies. Additionally, Kuligowski
breathing. Evacuate immediately."                                                and Omori (2014) provide guidance on how to test the effec-
(2) Building-wide public address system: [floors 2 through                       tiveness of these messages.
          10] "This is your [Building Manager, Joe Smith]. A
          dangerous chemical has spilled on the first floor. The                    As with any document, there are gaps in the research that
          chemical makes it difficult to see and can cause trouble               hinder the ability to provide guidance on certain topics, includ-
                                                                                 ing message length and repetition. This guidance document
  Y breathing. Immediately use the stairs to relocate to the                     focuses specifically on textual message creation, creating room
                                                                                 for additional guidance on the development and testing of
          [20th through 30th floors], and then wait for further                  visual symbols that could be used instead of, or in addition to,
                                                                                 textual emergency messages. In the future, as research gaps are
  L instructions. If you can't use the stairs on your own, go to                 addressed, additional editions of this document would be
                                                                                 useful to enhance the findings and guidance provided here.
          the freight elevator and wait for help. Relocate now."                 G.5 References. Kuligowski, E.D., S.M.V. Gwynne, K.M.
                                                                                 Butler, B.L. Hoskins, and C.R. Sandler, 2012. Developing Emer-
N (3) Building-wide public address system: [floors 11 and                        gency Communication Strategies for Buildings. Technical Note 1733,
          above] "This is your [Building Manager, Joe Smith]. A                  National Institute of Standards and Technology: Gaithersburg,
  O dangerous chemical has spilled on the first floor. The                       MD.
          chemical makes it difficult to see and can cause trouble
          breathing. People on [floors 1 through 10] are being                      Kuligowski, E.D. and Omori, H., 2014. General Guidance on
  E evacuated. Please stay on your floor. You are safer remain-                  Emergency Communication Strategies for Buildings, 2nd Edition.
  S ing where you are than if you try to leave the building.                     NIST Technical Note 1827, National Institute of Standards and
          The chemical will not reach people on floors 11 and                    Technology: Gaithersburg, MD.
  U above. You would possibly be exposed to the chemical if
          you tried to leave the building. Do not use the elevators                 U.S. Department of Justice, September 2010. 2010 ADA
          for any reason. We will give you further instructions if the           Standards for Accessible Design. Washington, DC: DOJ. http://
  L situation changes."                                                          www.ada.gov/2010ADAstandards_index.htm.
 A Note: Provide emails with the same messages as listed above.
                                                                                    START (National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U G.3.5 Scenario 5 -- Violent event in an airport, airport-wideResponses to Terrorism), 2013. Task 2.9: Phase II Interim Report
                                                                                 on Results from Experiments, Think-out-Louds, and Focus Groups.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} visual messaging screens, and cell phone text message. The University of Maryland, College Park: College Park, MD.
                                                                                 G.6 Footnotes. 1 Rapid-onset emergencies are those emergen-
ID fifth scenario is a violent event. Specially, the emergency                   cies that occur with no or almost no (in the case of minutes)
                                                                                 notice, rather than slow-onset events (i.e., emergencies in
   involves an active shooter that has been identified in a major                which the occurrence is known hours or even days in advance).
   U.S. airport.                                                                 These different emergency types require different sets of emer-
                                                                                 gency messages and dissemination techniques to allow building
 IV Example protective action: Occupants should evacuate the                     occupants to receive information in a timely manner, resulting
                                                                                 in efficient and safer public response.
   airport through all accessible doors, including doors from the
                                                                                    2 Push technologies are those that do not require individuals
D gate waiting areas onto the tarmac area.                                       to take extra effort to receive the alert or warning message
 IN Technologies used to disseminate the message (along with example

   character limits that can be typical for these types of technologies): A
   90-character text message alert to individuals' phones within
   the airport. Also, airport-wide visual messaging screens (limit

R message to 60 words or less) can be used to alert individuals in

   terminals where the shooter is NOT located.

OG.3.5.1 Message Templates for Scenario 5:
F(1) Airport-wide visual messaging screens: "This is Los
Angeles Police. Evacuate the terminal NOW. Follow direc-                         (e.g., public address systems or text messages), whereas pull
                                                                                 technologies require the individual to seek additional informa-
tions from airport security. Shots have been fired near                          tion to acquire the alert/message (e.g., Internet websites).
Gate 22."
(2) Cell phone text message (90 characters): "Leave NOW.
       Follow airport security. Shots fired! Police report: Shooter                 3 Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials are
       in Terminal A."                                                           identified in this document in order to describe an experimen-
                                                                                 tal procedure or concept adequately. Such identification is not
                                                                                 intended to imply recommendation or endorsement by the
Note: A description of the hazard (a more detailed "why" statement)              National Institute of Standards and Technology, nor is it inten-
is not included in this message due to character limits. If message
contents are limited, there is always the option to send a follow-up text        ded to imply that the entities, materials, or equipment identi-
                                                                                 fied are necessarily the best available for the purpose.
message that provides more information or that continues the previous
message. Also remember that some phones (i.e., non-smart phones)
could display longer text messages in reverse chronological order.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

   72-380                                            NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

N                Annex H Carbon Monoxide                               N Table H.1 Symptoms of Carbon Monoxide Exposure Based on

   This annex is not a part of the requirements of this NFPA document  Concentration

   but is included for informational purposes only.                    Concentration
                                                                         (ppm CO)
N H.1 Dangers of Carbon Monoxide. Carbon monoxide is an                                                Symptoms
   odorless, tasteless, colorless gas produced by incomplete
   combustion. Solid, liquid, or gaseous fuels can each, under         50                    No adverse effects with 8 hours of
   certain conditions, produce lethal concentrations in the home.                            exposure
   (See Table H.1 and Figure H.1.)                                     200                   Mild headache after 2­3 hours of

      The values in Table H.1 are approximate values for healthy               400             exposure
   adults. Children, the elderly, and persons with preexisting phys-           800           Headache and nausea after
   ical conditions might be more susceptible to the effects of
   carbon monoxide exposure. Continued exposure after uncon-                  1,000            1­2 hours of exposure
   sciousness can cause death. The dangers of carbon monoxide                 1,600          Headache, nausea, and dizziness
   exposure depend on a number of variables, such as the occu-                3,200
                                                                                               after 45 minutes of exposure;
   Y pant's health, activity level, time of exposure, and initial             6,400            collapse and unconsciousness
   L carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) level. Due to these variables,                                   after 2 hours of exposure
                                                                             12,800          Loss of consciousness after 1 hour
   Table H.1 and Figure H.1 are to be used as general guidelines       (1.28% by volume)       of exposure
                                                                                             Headache, nausea, and dizziness
   N and might not appear quantitatively consistent.                                           after 20 minutes of exposure
      The following equation for determining the estimated                                   Headache, nausea, and dizziness
                                                                                               after 5­10 minutes of exposure;
   O percent of COHb in the blood is from "A proposal for evaluat-                             collapse and unconsciousness
                                                                                               after 30 minutes of exposure
   ing human exposure to carbon monoxide contamination in                                    Headache and dizziness after
                                                                                               1­2 minutes of exposure;
   E military vehicles," by Steinberg and Nielson and "Considera-                              unconsciousness and danger of
                                                                                               death after 10­15 minutes of
   tions for the physiological variables that determine the blood                              exposure
                                                                                             Immediate physiological effects;
   S carboxyhemoglobin concentration in man" by Coburn, Forster,                               unconsciousness and danger of
                                                                                               death after 1­3 minutes of
   and Kane.                                                                                   exposure
U N
   L %COHbt = %COHb0 e -(t /2398B)  + 218 1 - e -(t /2398B) 
                 A ×  0.0003                         [H.1]

   {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} where:+ppm CO
   ID % COHbt = percentage of COHb at time t1316

   % COHb0 = percentage of COHb in the blood at time 0
               t = time (minutes)

     IV B = 0.0404 (work effort)
   FOR IND ppm CO = parts per million carbon monoxide
                                                                       N H.2 Information for Emergency Responders. Guideline
                                                                          Summary. How public emergency response organizations
                                                                          respond to carbon monoxide (CO) incident calls is essential
                                                                          for the safety of the building occupants and the emergency
                                                                          responders. One reference that can be helpful to emergency
                                                                          responders is the Consumer Product Safety Commission
                                                                          (CPSC) Responding to Residential Carbon Monoxide Incidents:
                                                                          Guidelines for Fire and Other Emergency First Response Personnel.
                                                                          This guide is designed to help emergency responders act
                                                                          quickly and effectively when responding to a CO incident, and
                                                                          it provides the following:
                                                                          (1) Guidelines for dispatchers handling calls
                                                                          (2) Incident reporting forms to help emergency responders
                                                                                 identify the elevated source of carbon monoxide, the
                                                                       level of care needed by occupants, and when it is safe for
                                                                       occupants to return to the building
                                                                       (3) Advice and actions to give building occupants

                                                                          The CPSC guide is available for download at https://
                                                                       www.cpsc.gov/s3fs-public/coguide.pdf.

   2019 Edition                     Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                      ANNEX I                                                           72-381

                                            1800

                                            1600                      Carbon monoxide concentration
                                                             Parts per million carbon monoxide vs. minutes

Parts per million carbon monoxide (ppm CO)                   A -- 50% COHb (Permanent brain damage -- death)

                                            1400             B -- 45% COHb (Coma and permanent brain damage)
                                                             C -- 40% COHb (Collapse)

                                            1200             D -- 35% COHb (Vomiting)
                                                             E -- 30% COHb (Drowsy)

                                                             F -- 25% COHb (Headache and nausea)

                                            1000             G -- 20% COHb (Headache)

                                                             Y J -- 5% COHb (None)
                                                             H -- 15% COHb (Slight headache)

                                            L 600800
                                                             I -- 10% COHb (None)

                                                           N A
                                            400           BO D
                                                          C
                                            E 100
                                             50           E

                                            200   S 20    F
                                                          G

U N FIGURE H.1 Carbon Monoxide Concentration (ppm CO) Versus Time (Minutes).H
                                                          I

                                                          J

                                                  40  60  80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 240

    L Annex I Informational References                       Minutes
A I.1 Referenced Publications. The documents or portions
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U thereof listed in this annex are referenced within the informa-

 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} tional sections of this Code and are not part of the require-

ID ments of this document unless also listed in Chapter 2 for

   other reasons.

IV  I.1.1 NFPA Publications. National Fire Protection Associa-
   tion, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169-7471.
 D NFPA 3, Standard for Commissioning of Fire Protection and Life
   Safety Systems, 2018 edition.
 IN NFPA 4, Standard for Integrated Fire Protection and Life Safety
   System Testing, 2018 edition.
 R NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2018 edition.
       NFPA 11, Standard for Low-, Medium-, and High-Expansion

FOFoam, 2016 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 17, Standard for Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems, 2017
                                                                                                        edition.

                                                                                                           NFPA 17A, Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems,
                                                                                                        2017 edition.

                                                                                                           NFPA 70®, National Electrical Code®, 2017 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 72E, Standard for Automatic Fire Detectors, 1984 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 80, Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives,
                                                                                                        2019 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 90A, Standard for the Installation of Air-Conditioning and
                                                                                                        Ventilating Systems, 2018 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 90B, Standard for the Installation of Warm Air Heating and
                                                                                                        Air-Conditioning Systems, 2018 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 92, Standard for Smoke Control Systems, 2018 edition.
                                                                                                           NFPA 101®, Life Safety Code®, 2018 edition.

                                            NFPA 12, Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems,  NFPA 105, Standard for Smoke Door Assemblies and Other Open-
                                                                                                        ing Protectives, 2019 edition.
2018 edition.

   NFPA 12A, Standard on Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems,                                            NFPA 111, Standard on Stored Electrical Energy Emergency and
2018 edition.                                                                                           Standby Power Systems, 2019 edition.

   NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 2019                                       NFPA 170, Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols, 2018
edition.                                                                                                edition.

   NFPA 14, Standard for the Installation of Standpipe and Hose                                            NFPA 551, Guide for the Evaluation of Fire Risk Assessments,
Systems, 2016 edition.                                                                                  2016 edition.

   NFPA 15, Standard for Water Spray Fixed Systems for Fire Protec-                                        NFPA 730, Guide for Premises Security, 2018 edition.
tion, 2017 edition.                                                                                        NFPA 731, Standard for the Installation of Electronic Premises
                                                                                                        Security Systems, 2017 edition.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                         2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-382                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

NFPA 750, Standard on Water Mist Fire Protection Systems, 2019 N I.1.2.6 IEEE Standards Association Publications. Institute of
edition.                                                                        Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 3 Park Avenue, New York,
                                                                                NY 10016-5997.
NFPA 909, Code for the Protection of Cultural Resource Properties
-- Museums, Libraries, and Places of Worship, 2017 edition.                     IEEE Std TM 450, Recommended Practice for Maintenance, Test-
                                                                                ing, and Replacement of Vented Lead-Acid Batteries for Stationary
   NFPA 914, Code for Fire Protection of Historic Structures, 2015              Applications, 2010.
edition.
                                                                                   IEEE Std TM 485, Recommended Practice for Sizing Lead-Acid
   NFPA 1221, Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use               Batteries for Stationary Applications, 2010.
of Emergency Services Communications Systems, 2019 edition.
                                                                                   IEEE Std TM 1106, Recommended Practice for Installation, Main-
       NFPA 1600®, Standard on Disaster/Emergency Management and                tenance, Testing, and Replacement of Vented Nickel-Cadmium Batteries
   Business Continuity/Continuity of Operations Programs, 2016                  for Stationary Applications, 2005.
   edition.
                                                                                   IEEE Std TM 1188, Recommended Practice for Maintenance, Test-
       NFPA 5000®, Building Construction and Safety Code®, 2018                 ing, and Replacement of Valve-Regulated Lead-Acid (VRLA) Batteries
                                                                                for Stationary Applications, 2005.
Y edition.
 L Fire Protection Research Foundation, Elevator Messaging                         IEEE 802.3af, Standard for Information Technology -- Telecom-
                                                                                munications and Information Exchange Between Systems -- Local and
   Strategies, 2011.                                                            Metropolitan Area Networks -- Specific Requirements -- Part 3, 2003.
                                                                                I.1.2.7 IES Publications. Illuminating Engineering Society of
 N Fire Protection Research Foundation, Optimizing Fire Alarm                   North America, 120 Wall Street, 17th floor, New York, NY
                                                                                10005.
   Notification for High Risk Groups, 2007.
                                                                                   Lighting Handbook Reference and Application, 2008.
 O Fire Protection Research Foundation (FPRF) Report, Devel-                    I.1.2.8 ISO Publications. International Organization for
                                                                                Standardization, ISO Central Secretariat, BIBC II, Chemin de
   opment of Technical Basis for Carbon Monoxide Detector Siting,               Blandonnet 8, CP 401, 1214 Vernier, Geneva, Switzerland.

E prepared by C. Beyler and D. Gottuk, 2007.                                       ISO/TR 4870, Acoustics -- The Construction and Calibration of
S I.1.2 Other Publications.                                                     Speech Intelligibility Tests, 1991.
U I.1.2.1 ANSI Publications. American National Standards Insti-
                                                                                   ISO 7240-19, Fire Detection and Alarm Systems -- Part 19:
   tute, Inc., 25 West 43rd Street, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10036.              Design, Installation, Commissioning, and Service of Sound Systems for
                                                                                Emergency Purposes, 2007.
 L ANSI S3.2, Method for Measuring the Intelligibility of Speech Over
                                                                                   ISO 8201, Audible Emergency Evacuation Signal, 2015.
   Communications Systems, 1989, revised 2009.                                     ISO/IEC 14763-2, Information technology -- Implementation and
                                                                                operation of customer premises cabling -- Part 2: Planning and instal-
 A ANSI/ASA S3.41, American National Standard Audible Emer-                     lation, 2012.
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U gency Evacuation (E2) and Evacuation Signals with Relocation   ISO/IEC 14763-3, Informational technology -- implementation
                                                                                and operation of customer premises cabling -- Part 3: Testing of optical
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Instructions (ESRI), 1990, reaffirmed 2015.               fibre cabling, 2014.
                                                                                I.1.2.9 NEMA Publications. National Electrical Manufacturers
ID I.1.2.2 ASME Publications. American Society of Mechanical                    Association, 1300 North 17th Street, Suite 900, Arlington, VA
                                                                                22209.
   Engineers, Two Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990.                            ANSI/NEMA SB-40, Communications Systems for Life Safety in
                                                                                Schools, 2015.
 IV ASME A17.1-2016/CSA B44-16, Safety Code for Elevators and

   Escalators, 2016.

 D ASME A.17.2, Guide for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators and

   Moving Walks, 2014.

IN  I.1.2.3 FEMA Publications. Federal Emergency Management
   Agency, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, 500 C Street,
   SW, Washington, DC 20024.
 R FEMA Publication CPG-17, Outdoor Warning Systems Guide,
O March 1980.
FI.1.2.4 FM Publications. FM Global, 270 Central Avenue, P.O.
Box 7500, Johnston, RI 02919.                                                   NEMA SB-50, Emergency Communications Audio Intelligibility
                                                                                Applications Guide, 2014.
FM 3210, Heat Detectors for Automatic Fire Alarm Signaling,
2007.                                                                           I.1.2.10 NIST Publications. National Institute of Standards
                                                                                and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Gaithersburg, MD
ANSI/FM 3260, American National Standard for Energy-Sensing                     20899-1070.
Fire Detectors for Automatic Fire Alarm Signaling, 2014.
                                                                                NIST 6055, Electromagnetic Signal Attenuation in Construction
I.1.2.5 IEC Publications. International Electrotechnical                        Materials, 1997.
Commission, 3 rue de Varembé, P.O. Box 131, CH-1211 Geneva
20, Switzerland. IEC documents are available through ANSI.                      NIST Technical Note 1779, General Guidance on Emergency
                                                                                Communications Strategies for Buildings, February 2013.
IEC 60268, Sound system equipment -- Part 16: Objective rating
of speech intelligibility by speech transmission index, 2nd edition,
2011.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                     ANNEX I                                                                               72-383

I.1.2.11 OASIS Publications. Organization for the Advance-                         I.1.2.16 References Associated with Annex A.
ment of Structured Information Standards (OASIS), 25 Corpo-
rate Drive, Suite 103, Burlington, MA 01803.                                       I.1.2.16.1 Reference to A.18.4.7.2. http://www.aip.org/pt/
                                                                                   nov99/locsound.html.
   OASIS Standard CAP-V1.2, OASIS Common Alerting Protocol,            ·
Version 1.2.                                                           N           I.1.2.16.2  Reference  to  A.18.5.5.5.1.  "Recommended  Light
                                                                                   Levels," National Optical Astronomy Observatory,
I.1.2.12 SFPE Publications. Society of Fire Protection Engi-                       www.noao.edu.
neers, 9711 Washingtonian Blvd., Suite 380, Gaithersburg, MD                       I.1.2.16.3 References to A.24.3.12.
20878.

   SFPE Engineering Guide: Evaluation of the Computer Fire Model                      (1) CARVER -- Target Analysis and Vulnerability Assessment
DETACT QS, 2002.                                                                   Methodology, Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Defense (see
                                                                                   Field Manual 34-36, Special Operation Forces Intelligence and
      SFPE Engineering Guide to Human Behavior in Fire, 2003.                      Electronics Warfare Operation, Sept. 30, 1991),
      SFPE Engineering Guide to Performance-Based Fire Protection, 2nd             www.defense.gov

Y edition, 2007.                                                                      (2) General Security Risk Assessment Guidelines. Alexandria, VA:
 L SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering, 5th edition, 2016.                American Society for Industrial Security International,
                                                                                   www.asisonline.org
      Keating, John P. and Loftus, Elizabeth F., "People Care in
                                                                                      (3) NFPA 1600, Standard on Disaster/Emergency Management
N Fire Emergencies -- Psychological Aspects, 1975," SFPE, 1975.                    and Business Continuity/Continuity of Operations Programs, Quincy,
O N I.1.2.13 TIA Publications. Telecommunications Industry Asso-                   MA: National Fire Protection Association, www.nfpa.org

   ciation, 1320 North Courthouse Road, Suite 200, Arlington, VA                      (4) NFPA 730, Guide for Premises Security, Quincy, MA:
   22201.                                                                          National Fire Protection Association, www.nfpa.org

 E ANSI/TIA-569-D, Telecommunications Pathways and Spaces,                            (5) Responsible Care Code, Washington, DC: American Chemis-
S April 2015.                                                                      try Council, www.americanchemistry.com
 U TIA-526, Standard Test Procedures for Fiber Optic Systems,
                                                                                      (6) Risk and Resilience Management of Water & Wastewater
   September 1992.                                                                 Systems, Denver, CO: American Water Works Association,
                                                                                   www.awwa.org
L N I.1.2.14 UL Publications. Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333
   Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.                                         (7) VAMCAP® Vulnerability Assessment Methodology for Critical
 A ANSI/UL 268, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm                        Asset Protection, Wilmington, DE: SafePlace Corporation,
                                                                                   www.safeplace.com
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Systems, 6th edition, 2009.
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} ANSI/UL 268A, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Duct Applica-   (8) Vulnerability Assessment Methodologies, Albuquerque, NM:
                                                                                   Sandia National Laboratories, www.sandia.gov
ID tion, 4th edition, 2008, revised 2016.                                          I.1.2.16.4 References to A.24.4.8.
      ANSI/UL 827, Standard for Central-Station Alarm Services,
                                                                                      (1) Schifiliti, R.P., "To Leave or Not to Leave -- That is the
IV 2014.                                                                           Question!", National Fire Protection Association, World Fire
      ANSI/UL 864, Standard for Control Units and Accessories for Fire             Safety Congress & Exposition, May 16, 2000, Denver, CO.

D Alarm Systems, 9th edition, 2003, revised 2012.                                     (2) Ramachandran, G., "Informative Fire Warning Systems,"
 IN ANSI/UL 1638, Visible Signaling Devices for Fire Alarm and                     Fire Technology, Volume 47, Number 1, February 1991, National
                                                                                   Fire Protection Association, 66­81.
   Signaling Systems, Including Accessories, 5th edition, 2016.
      ANSI/UL 1971, Standard for Signaling Devices for the Hearing                    (3) J. Bryan, "Psychological Variables That May Affect Fire
                                                                                   Alarm Design," Fire Protection Engineering, Society of Fire Protec-
R Impaired, 3rd edition, 2002, revised 2013.                                       tion Engineers, Issue No. 11, Fall 2001.
      ANSI/UL 2075, Standard for Safety Gas and Vapor Detectors and
                                                                                      (4) Proulx, G., "Cool Under Fire," Fire Protection Engineering,
FOSensors, 2013.
ANSI/UL 2572, Mass Notification Systems, 2nd edition, 2016.                        Society of Fire Protection Engineers, Issue No. 16, Fall 2002.

I.1.2.15 U.S. Government Publications. U.S. Government                                (5) General Services Administration, Proceedings of the
Publishing Office, 732 North Capitol Street, NW, Washington,                       Reconvened International Conference on Fire Safety in High
DC 20401-0001.                                                                     Rise Buildings, Washington, D.C., October 1971.

   ADA-ABA-AG, Americans with Disabilities Act and Architectural              (6) Proulx, G., "Strategies for Ensuring Appropriate Occu-
Barriers Act Accessibility Guidelines, 2010.                              pant Response to Fire Alarm Signals," National Research Coun-
                                                                          cil of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Construction Technology Update,
   NIST Technical Note 1455­1, Performance of Home Smoke                  No. 43, 1­6, December 2000.
Alarms, Analysis of the Response of Several Available Technologies in   I.1.2.16.5 References to A.29.2.
Residential Fire Settings, February 2008.

Title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1910.5.                                   "A Few Facts at the Household Level," NFPA Fire Analysis
Title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 15.                                    Division, Fire Journal, July 2009.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-384                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Ahrens, M., "Home Structure Fires," NFPA Fire Analysis and N I.1.2.17 Other Publications -- Related to Carbon Monoxide
Research Division, September 2016.                                              Provisions.

Haynes, Hylton J.G., "Fire Loss in the United States during                     Ashley, E., DuBois, J., "Waking Effectiveness of Audible,
2015," NFPA Fire Analysis and Research Division, September                      Visual, and Vibratory Emergency Alarms Across All Hearing
2016.                                                                           Levels," Fire Suppression and Detection Research Symposium,
                                                                                Orlando, FL 2005.
Injury Facts, National Safety Council, Itasca, IL, 2011.
                                                                                   Coburn, R. F., Forster, R. E., and Kane, P. G., "Considerations
I.1.2.16.6 References to A.29.5.8.                                              for the physiological variables that determine the blood carbox-

Bruck, D. and Thomas, I., "Smoke alarms for sleeping adults                     yhemoglobin concentration in man," Journal of Clinical Inves-
                                                                                tigation, 1965, November; 44(11):1899­1910.
who are hard-of-hearing: comparison of auditory, visual, and
   tactile signals," Ear and Hearing, 30(1), February 2009, pp. 73­
   80.                                                                                 Fire Protection Research Foundation (FPRF) Report, Devel-
                                                                                   opment of Technical Basis for Carbon Monoxide Detector
       Bruck, D., Thomas, I., and Ball, M., "Optimizing Fire Alarm                 Siting, prepared by C. Beyler and D. Gottuk, 2007.

Y Notification for High Risk Groups Research Project -- Waking                         Report of research on emergency signaling devices for use
                                                                                   by the hearing impaired (Subject 1971), Underwriters Labora-
   effectiveness of alarms (auditory, visual and tactile) for the alco-            tories, 1991.

L hol impaired," Report to the Fire Protection Research Founda-                        Steinberg, S., and Nielson, G. D., "A proposal for evaluating
                                                                                   human exposure to carbon monoxide contamination in mili-
   tion, June 2007.                                                                tary vehicles," AMCMS Code 672716.H700011, March 1977.

 N Roby, R., "Smoke Detector Alert for the Deaf," Phase II                             Stone, W. Electromagnetic Attenuation in Construction
O SBIR, Final Report, NIH Grant No. 2R44 DC004254-2, May 27,                       Materials, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
                                                                                   NISTIR 6055, 1997.
   2005.
                                                                                       Title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 15.
E  I.1.2.16.7 References to A.29.8.1.                                            I.1.2.18 References Associated with Annex B.
       NBS GCR 75-51, Detector Sensitivity and Siting Requirements for
S Dwellings, 1975.                                                                     (1) Alpert, R. "Ceiling Jets," Fire Technology, August 1972.
 U NBS GCR 77-82, Detector Sensitivity and Siting Requirements for                     (2) "Evaluating Unsprinklered Fire Hazards," SFPE Technology
   Dwellings Phase 2, 1977.                                                        Report 83-2.
 L NIST Technical Note 1455-1, Performance of Home Smoke Detec-                        (3) Babrauskas, V., Lawson, J. R., Walton, W. D., and Twilley,
   tors Analysis of the Response of Several Available Technologies in a            W. H. "Upholstered Furniture Heat Release Rates Measured
A Residential Setting, 2007.                                                       with a Furniture Calorimeter," (NBSIR 82-2604) (Dec. 1982).
                                                                                   National Institute of Standards and Technology (formerly
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U  I.1.2.16.8 References to A.29.8.2.1.1.                        National Bureau of Standards), Center for Fire Research,
 ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Green, M. A. and Andres, C., "2004­2005 National Sample   Gaithersburg, MD 20889.
                                                                                       (4) Beyler, C. "A Design Method for Flaming Fire Detec-
   Survey of Unreported Residential Fires," CPSC, 2009.                            tion," Fire Technology, Vol. 20, No. 4, November 1984.
                                                                                       (5) Hurley, M. J., ed.,Chapter 40, SFPE Handbook of Fire Protec-
 IV Ahrens, M., "Factors in Smoke Alarm Performance,"                              tion Engineering, by R. Schifiliti, R. Custer, and B. Meacham,
                                                                                   2016.
   National Fire Protection Association, December 2009.                                (6) Evans, D. D. and Stroup, D. W. "Methods to Calculate
                                                                                   Response Time of Heat and Smoke Detectors Installed Below
 D Thomas, I. and Bruck, D., "Smoke Alarms in Dwellings:                           Large Unobstructed Ceilings," (NBSIR 85-3167) (Feb. 1985,
                                                                                   issued Jul. 1986). National Institute of Standards and Technol-
   Timely Activation and Effective Notification," Victoria Univer-

IN sity, June 2010.

N I.1.2.16.9 References to A.29.10.8.2.1.
       Stone, W., "Electromagnetic Attenuation in Construction

R Materials," National Institute of Standards and Technology,

   NISTIR 6055, 1997.

FO N I.1.2.16.10 References to A.29.11.3.
   Kemano Fire Studies Part 1 of Residential Smoke Alarms,                      ogy (formerly National Bureau of Standards), Center for Fire
National Research Council Canada, April 2003.                                   Research, Gaithersburg, MD 20889.

      Spacing Requirements for Complex Beamed and Sloped                           (7) Heskestad, G. "Characterization of Smoke Entry and
   Ceilings Report, The Fire Protection Research Foundation,                    Response for Products-of-Combustion Detectors" Proceedings,
   NFPA, April 2008.                                                            7th International Conference on Problems of Automatic Fire
N I.1.2.16.11 References to A.29.11.3.4(9).                                     Detection, Rheinish-Westfalischen Technischen Hochschule
                                                                                Aachen (March 1975).

   Gottuk, E.D. and Gottuk, D.T., "The Effect of Ceiling Fans                      (8) Heskestad, G. "Investigation of a New Sprinkler Sensitiv-
on Smoke Alarm Performance," NFPA Research Foundation                           ity Approval Test: The Plunge Test," FMRC Tech. Report 22485,
SUPDET Symposium presentation, 2015.                                            Factory Mutual Research Corporation, 1151 Providence Turn-
                                                                                pike, Norwood, MA 02062.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

              ANNEX I                                                                                            72-385

   (9) Heskestad, G. and Delichatsios, M. A. "The Initial                        (25) Custer, R. L. P., and Meacham, B. "Introduction to
Convective Flow in Fire: Seventeenth Symposium on Combus-                     Performance Based Fire Safety," SFPE, 1997.
tion," The Combustion Institute, Pittsburgh, PA (1979).
                                                                                 (26) Schifiliti, R. P., Meacham B., Custer, R. L. P. "Design of
   (10) Heskestad, G. and Delichatsios, M. A. "Environments of                Detection Systems," SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering.
Fire Detectors -- Phase 1: Effect of Fire Size, Ceiling Height
and Material," Measurements Vol. I (NBS-GCR-77-86), Analysis                     (27) Marrion, C. "Correction Factors for the Heat of
Vol. II (NBS-GCR-77-95). National Technical Information Serv-                 Combustion in NFPA 72," Appendix B, Fire Protection Engi-
ice (NTIS), Springfield, VA 22151.                                            neering, SFPE, 1998.

   (11) Heskestad, G. and Delichatsios, M. A. "Update: The                       (28) Marrion, C. "Designing and Analyzing the Response of
Initial Convective Flow in Fire," Fire Safety Journal, Vol. 15,               Detection Systems: An Update to Previous Correlations," 1988.

No. 5, 1989.                                                                  (29) Custer, R. and Bright, R. "Fire Detection: The State-of-

      (12) International Organization for Standardization, Audible            the-Art," NBS Tech. Note 839, National Bureau of Standards,
   Emergency Evacuation Signal, ISO 8201, 1987.                               Washington, 1974.

 Y (13) Klote, J. and Milke, J. "Principles of Smoke Manage-                     (30) Meacham, Brian J. "Characterization of Smoke from
L ment," American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air                   Burning Materials for the Evaluation of Light Scattering-Type
                                                                              Smoke Detector Response," MS Thesis, WPI Center for Firesaf-
   Conditioning Engineers, Atlanta, GA, 2002.                                 ety Studies, Worcester, MA, 1991.

 N (14) Lawson, J. R., Walton, W. D., and Twilley, W. H. "Fire                   (31) Delichatsios, M. A. "Categorization of Cable Flammabil-
                                                                              ity, Detection of Smoldering, and Flaming Cable Fires," Interim
   Performance of Furnishings as Measured in the NBS Furniture                Report, Factory Mutual Research Corporation, Norwood, MA,
                                                                              NP-1630, November 1980.
O Calorimeter, Part 1," (NBSIR 83-2787) (Aug. 1983). National
                                                                                 (32) Heskestad, G. FMRC Serial Number 21017, Factory
   Institute of Standards and Technology (formerly National                   Mutual Research Corp., Norwood, MA, 1974.
   Bureau of Standards), Center for Fire Research, Gaithersburg,
                                                                                 (33) Marrion, C. E. "Lag Time Modeling and Effects of Ceil-
E MD 20889.                                                                   ing Jet Velocity on the Placement of Optical Smoke Detectors,"
 S (15) Morton, B. R., Taylor, Sir Geoffrey, and Turner, J. S.                MS Thesis, WPI Center for Firesafety Studies, Worcester, MA,
                                                                              1989.
   "Turbulent Gravitational Convection from Maintained and
                                                                                 (34) Kokkala, M. et al. "Measurements of the Characteristic
U Instantaneous Sources," Proc. Royal Society A, 234, 1­23, 1956.             Lengths of Smoke Detectors," Fire Technology, Vol. 28, No. 2,
 L (16) Schifiliti, R. "Use of Fire Plume Theory in the Design                National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 1992.

   and Analysis of Fire Detector and Sprinkler Response," Master's               (34a) Yamauchi et al. "A Calculation Method for Predicting
                                                                              Heat and Smoke Detector's Response."
A Thesis, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Center for Firesafety
                                                                                 (34b) Cleary et al. "Particulate Entry Lag in Spot Type
   Studies, Worcester, MA, 1986.                                              Smoke Detectors," IAFSS Proceedings, Boston, MA 2000.

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U (17) Title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, Communications   (34c) Keski-Rahkonen, "Revisiting Modeling of Fluid Pene-
                                                                              tration into Smoke Detectors," AUBE 2001.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Act of 1934 Amended.
                                                                                 (34d) Bjoerkman et al. "Determination of Dynamic Model
 ID (18) Schifiliti, R. and Pucci, W. "Fire Detection Modelling,              Parameters of Smoke Detectors," Fire Safety Journal, No 37, pp.
                                                                              395­407, 2002.
   State of the Art," 6 May, 1996 sponsored by the Fire Detection
                                                                                 (34e) Keski-Rahkonen, "A New Model for Time Lag of
IV Institute, Bloomfield, CT.                                                 Smoke Detectors," International Collaborative Project to Evalu-
      (19) Forney, G., Bukowski, R., Davis, W. "Field Modelling:              ate Fire Models for Nuclear Power Plant Application, Gaithers-
                                                                              burg, MD May 2002.
D Effects of Flat Beamed Ceilings on Detector and Sprinkler

   Response," Technical Report, Year 1. International Fire Detec-

IN tion Research Project, National Fire Protection Research Foun-

   dation, Quincy, MA. October, 1993.
      (20) Davis, W., Forney, G., Bukowski, R. "Field Modelling:

R Simulating the Effect of Sloped Beamed Ceilings on Detector

   and Sprinkler Response," Year 1. International Fire Detection

OResearch Project Technical Report, National Fire Protection
FResearch Foundation, Quincy, MA. October, 1994.
   (21) Brozovski, E. "A Preliminary Approach to Siting Smoke                    (35) UL 268, Standard for Smoke Detectors for Fire Alarm Systems,
Detectors Based on Design Fire Size and Detector Aerosol                      Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Northbrook, IL, 2009.
Entry Lag Time," Master's Thesis, Worcester Polytechnic,
Worcester, MA, 1989.                                                             (36) Deal, Scott."Technical Reference Guide for FPEtool
                                                                              Version 3.2," NISTIR 5486, National Institute for Standards and
   (22) Cote, A. NFPA Fire Protection Handbook, 20th edition,                 Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce, Gaithersburg,
National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 2008.                       MD, Aug. 1994.

   (23) Tewarson, A., "Generation of Heat and Chemical                           (37) Mowrer, F. W. "Lag Times Associated with Detection
Compounds in Fires," SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineer-               and Suppression," Fire Technology, Vol. 26, No. 3, pp. 244­265,
ing, Second Edition, NFPA and SFPE, 1995.                                     1990.

   (24) Hollman, J. P. Heat Transfer, McGraw-Hill, New York,                     (38) Newman, J. S. "Principles for Fire Detection," Fire Tech-
1976.                                                                         nology, Vol. 24, No. 2, pp. 116­127, 1988.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-386        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

   (39) Custer, R., Meacham, B., Wood, C. "Performance Based                            (57) Davis, W., The Zone Model Jet, "A Model for the Predic-
Design Techniques for Detection and Special Suppression                              tion of Detector Activation and Gas Temperature in the Pres-
Applications," Proceedings of the SFPE Engineering Seminars                          ence of a Smoke Layer," NISTIR 6324, NIST, May 1999.
on Advances in Detection and Suppression Technology, 1994.
                                                                                        (58) SFPE Engineering Guide to Human Behavior in Fire.
   (40) SFPE Engineering Guide to Performance Based Fire Protec-                     I.1.2.19 References Associated with Annex D.
tion, 2nd edition, 2007, SFPE, Gaithersburg, MD.

   (41) SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering, 5thedition,                       (1) Jacob, K. & Tyson, T., "Computer-Based Prediction of
SFPE, Gaithersburg, MD, 2016.                                                        Speech Intelligibility for Mass Notification Systems," SUPDET
                                                                                     2008, Fire Protection Research Foundation, March 2008.
   (42) Drysdale, Dougal, An Introduction to Fire Dynamics, John
Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 1998, ISBN 0 471 90613 1, 2nd                                  (2) IEC 60268-16, "Sound system equipment -- Part 16:
edition.                                                                                Objective rating of speech intelligibility by speech transmission
                                                                                        index," 2003.
   (43) Nam S., Donovan L.P. and Kim S.G., Establishing Heat
Detectors Thermal Sensitivity Through Bench Scale Tests, Fire                              (3) ANSI/ASA S3.5, "American National Standard Methods
                                                                                        for Calculation of the Speech Intelligibility Index," 1997.
Y Safety Journal, Volume 39, Number 3, 191­215, April 2004.
L (44) Nam S., Thermal Response Coefficient TRC of Heat                                    (4) Barnett, P.W. and Knight, A.D., "The Common Intelligi-
                                                                                        bility Scale," Proceedings of the Institute of Acoustics, Vol. 17,
Detectors and Its Field Applications, Fire Detection and                                Part 7, 1995.

N Research Applications Symposium, NFP Research Foundation,                                (5) IEC 60849, Annex B, Sound Systems for Emergency
                                                                                        Purposes, February 1998.
January 2003.
                                                                                           (6) Sander J. van Wijngaarden and Jan A. Verhave, Past
O (45) Nam S., Performance-Based Heat Detector Spacing,                                 Present and Future of the Speech Transmission Index, Chap-
                                                                                        ter 9, Measurement and Prediction of Speech Intelligibility in
Interflam 2004, pp 883­892.                                                             Traffic Tunnels Using the STI, p113, TNO Human Factors, The
                                                                                        Netherlands, 2002.
E (46) Geiman, J. A., "Evaluation of Smoke Detector Response
S Estimation Methods," Master of Science Thesis, University of                             (7) Mapp, P., "Systematic & Common Errors in Sound
                                                                                        System STI and Intelligibility Measurements," Convention
Maryland, College Park, MD, December 2003.                                              Paper 6271, Audio Engineering Society, 117th Convention, San
                                                                                        Fran, CA, 28­31 October 2004.
U (47) Projected Beam Smoke Detectors -- More Than Just a
                                                                                           (8) Peter Mapp, Past Present and Future of the Speech
Substitute for Spot Detectors; Fire Protection Engineering,                             Transmission Index, Chapter 8, Practical Application of STI to
                                                                                        Assessing Public Address and Emergency Sound Systems, TNO
L Summer 2004, SFPE.                                                                    Human Factors, The Netherlands, 2002.
A (48) Geiman, J.A., and Gottuck, D.T., "Alarm Thresholds for                        N I.1.2.20 References Associated with Annex G.

Smoke Detector Modeling," Fire Safety Science -- Proceeding of the                         Kuligowski, Erica D., NIST Technical Note 1779: "General
                                                                                        Guidance on Emergency Communication Strategies for Build-
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Seventh International Symposium, 2003, pp. 197­208.                 ings," February 2013.
                                                                                     N I.1.2.21 References Associated with Annex H.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} (49) The SFPE Code Official's Guide to Performance-based Design
                                                                                           U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Responding to
ID Review and Analysis of Buildings, Society of Fire Protection Engi-                   Residential Carbon Monoxide Incidents: Guidelines for Fire and Other
                                                                                        Emergency Response Personnel, Washington, DC, July 2002, http://
neers, Bethesda, MD, 2004.                                                              www.cpsc.gov/s3fs-public/coguide.pdf.
                                                                                        I.2 Informational References. The following documents or
IV (50) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, National Fire Protection                            portions thereof are listed here as informational resources

Association, Quincy, MA, 2009.

D (51) NFPA 909, Code for the Protection of Cultural Resource Prop-

erties -- Museums, Libraries, and Places of Worship, National Fire

IN Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 2010.
   (52) NFPA 914, Code for Fire Protection of Historic Structures,
National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 2010.

R (53) Performance-based Building Design Concepts, Interna-
O tional Code Council, Washington DC, 2004.
F(54) Extreme Event Mitigation In Buildings -- Analysis and
Design, Meacham, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy,                       only. They are not a part of the requirements of this document.
MA, 2006.
                                                                                     N I.2.1 ASTM Publications. ASTM International, 100 Barr
(55) Geiman, Gottuk, and Milke, "Evaluation of Smoke                                 Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, PA
Detector Response Estimation Methods: Optical Density,                               19428-2959.
Temperature Rise and Velocity at Alarm," Journal of Fire Protec-
tion Engineering, 2006.                                                                 ASTM E2292, Standard Guide for Field Investigation of Carbon
                                                                                     Monoxide Poisoning Incidents, 2014.
   (56) Su et al., "Kemano Fire Studies -- Part 1: Response of
Residential Smoke Alarms," Research Report 108, NRCC, April                          N I.2.2 EPRI Publications. Electric Power Research Institute,
2003.                                                                                   3420 Hillview Avenue, Palo Alto, CA 94304.

                                                                                        Technical Report 1002925, Stationary Battery Monitoring by
                                                                                     Internal Ohmic Measurement, 2002.

2019 Edition  Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

               ANNEX I                                                                                           72-387

      Technical Report TR-10067577, Stationary Battery Guide;          ANSI/UL 2075, Gas and Vapor Detectors and Sensors, 2004.
   Design, Application, and Maintenance, 2002.                         UL 9540, Outline of Investigation for Energy Storage Systems and
N I.2.3 NFPA Publications. National Fire Protection Associa-        Equipment, 1st edition, 2016.
   tion, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02169-7471.                I.3 References for Extracts in Informational Sections.
                                                                       NFPA 70®, National Electrical Code®, 2017 edition.
      NFPA 1192, Standard on Recreational Vehicles, 2018 edition.      NFPA 92, Standard for Smoke Control Systems, 2018 edition.
   I.2.4 UL Publications. Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333
   Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.

   UL 1973, Standard for Batteries for Use in Light Electric Rail      NFPA 92B, Smoke Management Systems in Malls, Atria, and
(LER) Applications and Stationary Applications, 1st edition, 2013,  Large Spaces, 1995 edition.

revised 2016.                                                       NFPA 101®, Life Safety Code®, 2018 edition.

      ANSI/UL 2034, Standard for Single and Multiple Station Carbon    NFPA 1221, Standard for the Installation, Maintenance, and Use
   Monoxide Alarms, 2008, revised 2009.                             of Emergency Services Communications Systems, 2016 edition.

 Y UL 2054, Standard for Household and Commercial Batteries, 2nd
F{CO56RA4DICN7-D64IFV7-I4DC8U8-AB3L68-U41SDEE5BOD4N7BLC8} edition, 2004, revised 2011.

Shaded text = Revisions.  = Text deletions and figure/table revisions. · = Section deletions. N = New material.  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-388                                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

                                                                         Index
                                Copyright © 2018 National Fire Protection Association. All Rights Reserved.

   The copyright in this index is separate and distinct from the copyright in the document that it indexes. The licensing provi-
sions set forth for the document are not applicable to this index. This index may not be reproduced in whole or in part by any
means without the express written permission of NFPA.

                                   -A-                                     Coded, see Coded

Abnormal (off-normal) condition, 10.3.4, 10.8.1, 12.2.2, 14.4.6,           Inspections, Table 14.3.1
               23.3.3.1(3), 23.5 to 23.7, 24.5.2.2, 24.6.11.2, 24.10.3,    Manual, 10.4.7.3, 17.15, 23.3.3.1(1), 23.8.5.1.2, 27.4.2.4, 27.4.3.8,
               27.6.1.2, A.12.3
                                                                                          A.17.15.8 to A.17.15.9.5, A.23.8.5.1.2

      Definition, 3.3.61.1                                                          Auxiliary fire alarm systems, application of, Table 27.6.3.2.2.3
 Accessible, readily (readily accessible)                                           Definition, 3.3.12.3, A.3.3.12.3
                                                                                    Inspections, Table 14.3.1
      Definition, 3.3.3                                                             Location, 17.15.6, 17.15.9.2, 17.15.9.4 to 17.15.9.6,

Y Accessible (as applied to equipment)                                                              A.17.15.9.5
      Definition, 3.3.1                                                             Mass notification system, 24.5.9.4 to 24.5.9.6
                                                                                    Mounting, 17.15.4, 17.15.5, 17.15.9.6
L Accessible (as applied to wiring methods)                                         Signal initiation, 23.3.3.1(1), 23.8.5.2, 26.2.1.1
 N Definition, 3.3.2                                                                Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                               Master, 27.4.2.4(3), 27.6.4
 Accessible spaces (as applied to detection coverage)                               Definition, 3.3.12.4
                                                                                    Inspections, Table 14.3.1
 O Definition, 3.3.4                                                                Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.2.16, F.2.17
                                                                                    Wireless network boxes, 27.4.3.8(3)
 Acknowledge, 10.11.8.2, 10.14.6.2, 23.8.1.2.1.1, 26.3.6.6.2,                  Municipal (street box)
                 26.3.8.3.5.2, 26.4.4.2.1.1, 26.4.4.2.2.1(B), 26.4.4.2.2.3,         Definition, 3.3.174
                                                                               Publicly accessible, 27.4.2.4(1), 27.6.2, A.27.6.2
  E 26.4.4.2.2.4, 26.4.4.3, 26.6.4.1.5, 26.6.6.5, A.26.4.4.3,                       Definition, 3.3.12.5
                                                                                    Inspections, Table 14.3.1
                 A.26.6.6.5                                                         Location, 27.6.2.1.6, 27.6.2.1.7, 27.6.2.1.10, A.27.6.2.1.6,

 S Definition, 3.3.5                                                                                A.27.6.2.1.10
                                                                                    Power supplies, 27.6.6.9 to 27.6.6.13
 Acoustically distinguishable space (ADS), 18.4.11, 24.4.2.2.2,                     Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                                    Wired network boxes, 27.6.5
  U 24.5.3.2, A.18.4.11, A.24.4.2.2.2, D.2.3.1, D.3.5                               Wireless network boxes, 27.4.3.8(1), 27.6.6, A.27.6.6.2,

      Definition, 3.3.6, A.3.3.6                                                                    A.27.6.6.7
                                                                           Alarm condition, 10.8.2, 21.3.4, 21.7.6, 21.10.6, 23.8.2.7, A.23.8.2.7.4
L Active multiplex systems, A.26.6.3
      Definition, 3.3.7                                                        Definition, 3.3.61.1.1, A.3.3.61.1.1
 A Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                 Alarm repeater systems, 27.5.3.4, 27.5.5.3.4.1, 27.5.5.3.5,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Addressable devices                                                   29.10.8.1.1(4), A.26.6.5.2, A.27.5.5.1.4; see also Radio
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Circuits, notification appliances, 23.8.6.4                        alarm repeater station receiver (RARSR); Repeater
 ID Definition, 3.3.8                                                                     station; Wireless repeater
                                                                               Definition, 3.3.13
 Adoption of code                                                          Alarm responses, 10.9.1
      Requirements, 1.7                                                        Definition, 3.3.250.1, A.3.3.250.1
                                                                           Alarm service (definition), 3.3.14
 IV Sample ordinance, Annex E

 Adverse conditions, 26.6.5.1.4, 26.6.5.1.6, 26.6.5.2.7, A.26.6.5.1.4

 D Definition, 3.3.9

 Aerial construction, 27.7.1.2.2, 27.7.1.4, 27.7.3.6, 27.7.3.9 to

  IN 27.7.3.12

 Air ducts, see Ducts, detectors in
 Air sampling­type detectors, 17.7.3.6, 17.7.6.3.3.3, A.17.7.3.6.1.1 to

  RA.17.7.3.6.4.2

      Definition, 3.3.70.1

 OInspection, Table 14.3.1
FTest methods, Table 14.4.3.2
Air stratification, see Stratification                                     Alarm signals, 10.7 to 10.15, A.10.7.3 to A.10.15.10.7; see also Fire
                                                                           alarm signals; Supervisory signals; Trouble signals
Alarm
                                                                           Central station service, 26.3.8.3.1, A.26.3.8.3.1(1)
        Carbon monoxide (definition), 3.3.11.1                             Coded, 10.14.4
        Definition, 3.3.11
                                                                           Content, 26.2.3
Alarm boxes, 27.4.2.4, 27.6, A.26.4.3.6, A.27.6.1 to A.27.6.6.7; see also  Control units, interconnected, 23.8.2.7.1
               Auxiliary alarm systems

        Auxiliary, 27.4.2.4(2)                                             Deactivation, 10.11.8, 10.12, 24.5.13.5, 24.5.25.1, A.10.12

        Definition, 3.3.12.1                                               Definition, 3.3.263.1, A.3.3.263.1

        Inspections, Table 14.3.1                                          Distinctive, see Distinctive signals

        Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                            Ducts, detectors in, 21.7.4

        Wireless network boxes, 27.4.3.8(2)                                Elevator system, output signals to, 21.6.2.5, A.21.6.2.5

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                       INDEX                                                                                                        72-389

Emergency communications systems, 24.11.3, A.24.11.3                 Area of refuge emergency communications systems, 24.3.7.2(3),
End-to-end communication time, 12.3.3, 12.3.6, 26.6.3.8,                            24.3.14.9, 24.10, 24.11.1.2(2), A.24.3.14.9, A.24.10

               A.12.3.3, A.12.3.6(1) to A.12.3.6(5), Table A.26.6.1  As-built drawings, see Record drawings

Household signaling systems, 29.10.9.6, 29.10.9.7, A.29.10.9.7       Audible notification appliances, 18.4, A.18.4.1.1 to A.18.4.11.4; see
                                                                                          also Emergency voice/alarm communications; Exit
Low-power radio (wireless) systems, 23.16.3, A.23.16.3.1                                  marking audible notification appliances
Off-premises, 23.3.3.1(12), 23.12, A.23.12.4                                   Alarm signal deactivation (silencing), 10.11.8.1, 10.11.8.2,
Positive alarm sequence, see Positive alarm sequence
Power supervisory devices, operation of, 10.6.9.4                                             10.12.2, 24.5.13.5, 24.5.25.1, A.10.12.2
Proprietary supervising system, 26.4.4.1 to 26.4.4.4, 26.4.6.1.6.1,            Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator communication

               A.26.4.4.1.3, A.26.4.4.3                                                       systems, 24.10.9
Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.5.2.2.2                           Audibility, 18.4.1.1 to 18.4.1.4, 18.4.4.1, 18.4.5.1, A.18.4.1.1 to

                                                                                              A.18.4.1.3, A.18.4.4.1, A.18.4.5.1, D.2.3.2
            Remote supervising station system, 26.5.1.3, 26.5.1.4, 26.5.1.5.2,
                            26.5.3.1, 26.5.4, 26.5.6.3.1, 26.5.7, 26.5.8.1,        Carbon monoxide alarm signals, 18.4.3, 29.10.7.3, 29.10.7.4,
                            A.26.5.3.1.4                                                           29.10.7.6, 29.10.7.7

            Response to, 10.9.1                                                    Change of status signals, 26.6.6.5(1)
                                                                                   Definition, 3.3.182.1
  Y Secondary power, operation on, 10.6.7.1.1, 26.6.3.13,                          Distinctive signals, see Distinctive signals
    L A.26.6.3.13.1                                                                Documentation, 7.2.1(10)
                                                                                   Emergency voice/alarm communications, 24.4.8.6, A.24.4.8.6.1,
            Supervising station alarm systems, 26.2.1, 26.6.1.2, 26.6.3.8,
                                                                                                   A.24.4.8.6.3
    N 26.6.3.11, 26.6.3.14, A.26.2.1.2, A.26.2.1.3(3)                              Evacuation signals, 18.4.2, 29.5.1, A.18.4.2.1, A.18.4.2.4, A.29.5.1
                                                                                   Hearing loss, for persons with, 29.5.10.1, A.29.5.10.1
            Wireless, 27.4.3.4, 27.5.5.1.3                                         Household signaling systems, 29.5.1, 29.5.4 to 29.5.7, 29.5.10.1,

 O Alarm systems, see Fire alarm systems; In-building fire emergency                               29.8.2.2, 29.10.7.3, 29.10.7.4, 29.10.7.6, 29.10.7.7,
                        voice/alarm communications systems; In-building mass                       A.29.5.1, A.29.5.5, A.29.5.6, A.29.5.10.1, A.29.8.2.2
                        notification systems; Public emergency alarm reporting          Trouble signals, 29.9.2, 29.9.5, 29.9.7, 29.10.6.5
    E systems; Supervising station alarm systems                                   Inspections, Table 14.3.1
        Alarm verification features, Table 14.4.3.2, 23.8.5.4.1, 23.8.5.4.3(3),    Location of appliances, 18.4.9, 18.4.10
                                                                                   Mass notification systems, 24.5.2.10, A.24.5.2.10
    S 26.2.2, A.23.8.5.4.1, A.26.2.2                                               Nameplates, 18.3.2.1, 18.3.2.2
                                                                                   Narrow band tone signaling for exceeding masked
            Definition, 3.3.17                                                                     thresholds, 18.4.7, A.18.4.7
                                                                                   Private mode, 18.4.4.3, 18.4.4.4, 18.4.5, A.18.4.5.1, A.18.4.5.2
 U Alert tone, 18.4.1.5, 24.6.1.3, A.18.4.1.5.1, A.18.4.1.5.2, G.2.1               Proprietary supervising systems, 26.4.4.2.1.1
            Definition, 3.3.18                                                     Public emergency alarm reporting systems
                                                                                        Alarm receiving equipment, 27.5.2.2.5.1, 27.5.2.2.6,
 L Amplifiers, 10.19.1, Table 14.4.3.2, A.10.19.1
                                                                                                        27.5.2.4.2 to 27.5.2.4.5, 27.5.2.5.7, 27.5.4.2.3,
        Analog initiating devices (sensor)                                                              27.5.4.3.2, 27.5.5.3.7, 27.5.5.3.8
                                                                                        Auxiliary fire alarm systems, 27.6.3.2.3.13
  A Definition, 3.3.141.1                                                               Wired network systems, 27.5.4.4.4
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Ancillary functions                                            Public mode, 18.4.4, A.18.4.4
                                                                                   Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.4, 26.5.1.5, 26.5.4.1
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Definition, 3.3.20, A.3.3.20                              Sleeping areas, 18.4.6, A.18.4.6.1 to A.18.4.6.3(2)
                                                                                   Supervisory signals, 10.14.1, 10.14.2.1, 10.14.5, 10.14.6.1,
  ID Emergency communications systems, 24.3.5, A.24.3.5.2                                          10.14.6.2
                                                                                   Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3.2, F.2.11, F.2.12
        Annunciation, 10.18, A.10.18.3, A.10.18.5, F.1                             Textual appliances, Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2, 18.8, A.18.8.1.2
            Combination systems, 23.8.4.4.3, 23.8.4.5.2                                 Definition, 3.3.182.1.2, A.3.3.182.1.2
                                                                                   Trouble signals, 10.15.3 to 10.15.9, 10.15.10.4, Table 14.4.3.2,
  IV Control units, interconnected, 23.8.2.7.1 to 23.8.2.7.4,                                      A.10.15.9
                            A.23.8.2.7.4                                                Household signaling systems, 29.9.2, 29.9.5, 29.9.7, 29.10.6.5
                                                                               Authority having jurisdiction (definition), 3.2.2, A.3.2.2
  D Of elevator status, 21.5, A.21.5                                           Automatic drift compensation, 23.8.5.4.2
                                                                               Automatic extinguishing systems, see Extinguishing systems
            Protected premises fire alarm systems, 23.8.5.8.1, 23.8.5.10.2,    Automatic extinguishing system supervisory devices, 17.17.2.2.2,
                                                                                              23.3.3.1(2), 23.8.5.6, 23.8.5.8 to 23.5.10, A.17.17.2.2.2,
    IN 23.8.5.10.3                                                                            A.23.8.5.6, A.23.8.5.8

            Supervising station communication methods, Table A.26.6.1
            Visible zone indication, 10.18.4

  RAlarm, 10.18.1

                 Supervisory and trouble, 10.18.2

 OZones, 10.18.5, A.10.18.5

        Annunciators, see also Remote annunciators

F Access and location, 10.18.3, A.10.18.3
            Control units, interconnected, 23.8.2.7.4, A.23.8.2.7.4
            Definition, 3.3.21
            Inspection, Table 14.3.1
            Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
        Apartment buildings, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1; see also Household
                        signaling systems
            Definition, 3.3.22

Application of code, 1.3                                                       Definition, 3.3.141.2

Approved (definition), 3.2.1, A.3.2.1                                          Automatic fire detectors, see also Fire­gas detectors; Heat detectors;

                                                                               Radiant energy­sensing fire detectors; Smoke detectors

                                                                                                      2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-390                                          NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Combination, B.3.2.4.3                                                   Secondary power source, 10.6.6.3.1, 10.6.7.2.1.1, 10.6.7.3.1,
            Definition, 3.3.70.4, A.3.3.70.4                                                    10.6.7.4.1, 29.9.1, 29.9.3, 29.9.4(7), A.10.6.7.2.1.1

        Definition, 3.3.70.2                                                     State of charge (SOC) (definition), 3.3.31.2.3
        Fire extinguishing or suppression system operation                       Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3.2
                                                                                 Trickle charge (definition), 3.3.31.2.4
                       (definition), 3.3.70.3

        Initiating devices, Table 27.6.3.2.2.3                                   Unit (multi-cell) (definition), 3.3.41.3

        Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                 Valve-regulated lead acid (VRLA), Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2,
                                                                                 A.10.6.10, A.14.4.3.2
        Manual fire box, available, 23.8.5.1.2, A.23.8.5.1.2
                                                                                 Beam construction (ceiling)
        Other types, 17.11, A.17.11.2
                                                                                 Definition, 3.3.40.1
        Definition, 3.3.70.14
                                                                                 Detector location, 17.6.3.3.2
        Sensitivity testing, 14.4.4.3
                                                                                     Detector spacing, 17.6.3.3.1, 17.7.3.2.4, 29.11.4.6, A.17.7.3.2.4
      Signal disposition, 26.2.1.1                                               Box alarms, see Alarm boxes
      Spacing, Annex B                                                           Box batteries, 27.6.6.9 to 27.6.6.13
      Two fire detectors, operation of, 23.8.5.4.3 to 23.8.5.4.5                 Box circuits, 27.5.2.5.1, 27.5.2.5.6.2, 27.5.4.1, 27.5.4.2.1, 27.5.4.2.2,

Y Automatic fire extinguishing or suppression system operation                                  27.5.4.4, 27.7.2.2, A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to A.27.5.2.5.1(3)
                 (definition), 3.3.70.3                                          Building, see also In-building mass notification systems

L Autonomous control unit (ACU), see Control units                                   Emergency radio communication system in, 14.4.10
                                                                                     Wiring inside, 27.7.1.2.3, 27.7.1.6, A.27.7.1.6.2
 Auxiliary alarm boxes, see Alarm boxes                                          Building fire alarm command center, 10.14.1(2)
                                                                                 Building fire alarm systems, 23.3.3.1, A.23.3.3.1; see also In-building
N Auxiliary alarm systems, 27.6.3, A.27.6.3.1.2 to A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(g)
                                                                                                mass notification systems; Protected premises (local)
      Definition, 3.3.221.1, A.3.3.221.1                                                        alarm and signaling systems
                                                                                     Definition, 3.3.111.4.1
 O Interfaces with public alarm systems, 27.6.3.2.2.2                            Building system information units (BSIU)
                                                                                     Control units, located with, 23.8.4.2.2.1 to 23.8.4.2.2.3,
      Types of systems, 27.6.3.2.2, A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1) to
                                                                                                     A.23.8.4.2.2.2
   E A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(g)                                                            Definition, 3.3.34
                                                                                     Emergency communications systems, 24.3.11
 Average ambient sound level, 18.4.1.1, 18.4.4.1, 18.4.4.5.1, 18.4.5.1,          Burglar alarm systems, 26.6.4.2.2(E)

  S A.18.4.1.1, A.18.4.4.1, A.18.4.5.1                                                                                      -C-

      Definition, 3.3.30, A.3.3.30                                               Cables
                                                                                     Aerial construction, 27.7.1.2.2, 27.7.1.4
       U -B-                                                                         Fiber-optic, 12.2.3.1, Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2, 27.4.2.1.1,
L Batteries, 10.6.10, A.10.6.10                                                                      27.7, A.27.7.1.6.2, A.27.7.3
                                                                                     Inside buildings, 27.7.1.2.3, 27.7.1.6, A.27.7.1.6.2
      Box, 27.6.6.9 to 27.6.6.13                                                     Leads down poles, 27.7.1.5
                                                                                     Public cable plant, see Wired network, public fire alarm
 A Capacity (definition), 3.3.31.1                                                                   reporting system
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Charger, 10.6.10.3, 10.6.11.7, A.10.6.10.3.4                     Underground, 27.7.1.2.2, 27.7.1.3

   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Definition, 3.3.31.2                                     Call forwarding equipment, 26.6.4.1.5(8), Table A.26.6.1,
                                                                                                A.26.6.4.1.5(8)
 ID Metering, 10.6.10.5
                                                                                 Carbon monoxide, Annex H
          Monitoring integrity of, 10.6.10.6                                         Dangers of, H.1
      Charging, 10.6.10.3, A.10.6.10.3.4                                             Emergency responders, information for, H.2

 IV Definition, 3.3.31, A.3.3.31                                                 Carbon monoxide alarms, 14.4.5.7, 29.1.2, 29.3.3, 29.7, A.29.1.2,
                                                                                                A.29.3.3, A.29.7
      Engine-driven generators, 10.6.11.7
                                                                                     Definition, 3.3.11.1
 D Float charge, 27.5.2.6.4, 27.5.2.6.5, 27.5.2.8, A.10.6.7.2.1.1,                   Markings, 29.14.2
                      A.10.6.10.3.4, A.14.4.3.2                                      Power supplies, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)
 IN Definition, 3.3.31.2.1                                                       Carbon monoxide alarm signals, 10.7.5, 10.10.3, 18.4.3, 23.8.4.9,
      Fully charged, 10.6.10.3.1, 10.6.10.3.2, Table 14.4.3.2,
                                                                                                29.5.3, 29.5.6, 29.10.7.3, 29.10.7.4, A.23.8.4.9, A.29.5.3,
                      A.10.6.10.3.4, A.14.4.3.2, D.3.1.7

 R Definition, 3.3.31.2.2

      Household signaling systems, 29.9.1, 29.9.2, 29.9.4(7), 29.9.5,
                      29.9.7

 OInspections, Table 14.3.1
FLoad test (definition), 3.3.31.3

      Location, 10.6.10.2
      Low-power radio (wireless) system power, 23.16.2, A.23.16.2
      Primary (dry cell), Table 14.3.1, 23.16.2, 29.9.1, A.23.16.2

          Definition, 3.3.207

        Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.5.2.5.1 to                  A.29.5.6
                       27.5.2.5.4, 27.5.2.8, 27.5.4.3.1, 27.6.6.9 to 27.6.6.13,
                       A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to A.27.5.2.5.1(3)                        Definition, 3.3.263.2
        Rechargeable, 29.9.3, 29.9.5, 29.9.8                                     Priority of, 29.10.7.7
            Definition, 3.3.31.5                                                 Secondary power supply, use of, 29.9.5(3)
        Replacement, 14.4.5.9                                                    Supervising station alarm systems, 26.2.4, A.26.2.4.1.3

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                  INDEX                                                                           72-391

Carbon monoxide detection systems, 1.3.1(2), 14.4.5.7, 14.4.6.5,                Valve-regulated lead acid (VRLA)
17.12, A.17.12.1(1), A.17.12.1(2)
                                                                                Definition, 3.3.41.4, A.3.3.41.4
Combination systems, Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2, 14.4.5.8,
               23.8.4.9, 29.10.7, A.23.8.4.9, A.29.10.7.8                       Central station, see Central supervising station
                                                                                Central station alarm system, see Central station service alarm
    Definition, 3.3.35.1
                                                                                               systems
Definition, 3.3.35
                                                                                Central station service, 26.3, A.26.3.2 to A.26.3.8.3.5.3
Emergency control function interface, HVAC system, 21.7.6
                                                                                Contract requirements, 26.3.3
Household systems, Table 14.4.3.2, Chap. 29
                                                                                Definition, 3.3.292.1
Combination systems, 29.10.7, A.29.10.7.8
                                                                                Documentation, 7.5.9
Definition, 3.3.35.2
                                                                                Indication of, 26.3.4, A.26.3.4
Testing, 14.4.8, 29.10.6.11, A.14.4.8.1.3
                                                                                Central station service alarm systems, 26.3, Table A.26.1, A.26.3.2 to
Installation, 17.12.1, 17.12.6, 17.12.8, 29.3.2, 29.3.3,                        A.26.3.8.3.5.3
                            A.17.12.1(1), A.17.12.1(2), A.29.3.3
            Location of detectors, 17.12.1, 17.12.3 to 17.12.5, A.17.12.1(1)        Definition, 3.3.291.1
            Markings, 29.14.2                                                       Disposition of signals, 26.3.8.3, A.26.3.8.3.1(1) to A.26.3.8.3.5.3
                                                                                    Guard's signal, 26.3.8.3.2
  Y Notification appliance deactivation, 10.13                                      Personnel, 26.3.7
  L Power supplies, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)                                               Presignal feature, 23.8.1.1.2(1)
                                                                                    Procedures, 26.3.8, A.26.3.8.3.1(1) to A.26.3.8.3.5.3
            Protected premises alarm and signaling systems, 23.3.3.1, 23.8.3,       Protected premises fire alarm systems, 23.12.1
                                                                                    Record keeping and reporting, 26.3.8.3.5.1, 26.3.9
    N 23.8.6.1.2, 23.8.6.1.3, 23.9.2, 23.15.6, A.23.3.3.1                           Remote signals received by, 26.5.3.1.3
                                                                                    Testing and maintenance, 14.2.3.5, 14.4.7, 26.3.8.3.5.1, 26.3.9.2,
            Secondary power supply, 10.6.7.2.3, 10.6.7.2.4, A.10.6.7.2.3
                                                                                                    26.3.10
  O Servicing of, 26.2.4.1.3, 26.2.4.2.2, A.26.2.4.1.3                              Two-way radio frequency (RF) systems, supervision

        Carrier (definition), 3.3.36                                                                of, 26.6.5.1.6(C)
                                                                                Central supervising station
 E Carrier system (definition), 3.3.37
                                                                                    Definition, 3.3.290.1
        Ceiling height                                                              Equipment, 26.3.6, A.26.3.6.6
                                                                                    Facilities, 26.3.5
  S Definition, 3.3.39                                                              Household signaling systems, 29.10.9.6
                                                                                    Inspection, 14.4.3.1, A.14.4.3.1
            Fire development and, B.3.2.3                                           Pathway survivability, emergency communications

 U Ceilings, see also Level ceilings; Sloping ceilings; Sloping peaked-                             systems, 24.3.14.11
                        type ceiling; Sloping shed-type ceiling; Smooth ceilings    Presignal feature, use of, 23.8.1.1.2(1)
  L Ambient ceiling temperature, Table 17.6.2.1, 17.6.2.3, A.17.6.2.3           Certification of personnel, 10.5.1.3, 10.5.1.6, 10.5.2.3, 10.5.2.5,
            Definition, 3.3.38
  A Detector location and spacing on, 17.6.3, 17.7.3, 29.8.1.3.1,                              10.5.3.4, 10.5.3.5.1, 10.5.4.4, 10.5.5.1, 10.5.5.2,
                            29.8.1.3.2, 29.11.3.1 to 29.11.3.4, 29.11.4,                       10.5.6.4.2, A.10.5.3, A.10.5.3.4(1) to A.10.5.3.4(3),
                                                                                               A.10.5.5.1(2), A.10.5.6.4.2(2), A.10.5.6.4.2(4)
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.17.6.3.1.1 to A.17.6.3.6, A.17.7.3.1 to A.17.7.3.7.8,     Channels, see also Communications channels; Transmission
         8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.29.8.1.3.1, A.29.11.3.1 to A.29.11.3.4(12),                    channels
    ID A.29.11.4, Annex B                                                           Definition, 3.3.47
            High, 17.6.3.5, A.17.6.3.5.1, A.17.6.3.5.3                              Radio (definition), 3.3.47.2, A.3.3.47.2; see also Radio frequency
  IV Open grid, 17.5.3.1.3                                                      Chemical energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.1
            Shapes of (definition), 3.3.260                                     Circuit conductors, 27.7.1.1
            Stratification below, see Stratification                            Circuit interface, see Interface; Interface equipment
  D Suspended, 17.7.3.5                                                         Circuits, Chap. 12; see also Communications circuits; Paths
            Visual notification appliances located on, 18.5.5.3, 18.5.5.4,                     (pathways)
    IN Table 18.5.5.5.1(b), 18.5.5.5.6 to 18.5.5.5.8,                               Branch circuits, 10.6.5.1, 10.6.5.2.1, 10.6.5.3, 10.6.7.3.1(2),
                            A.18.5.5.4, A.18.5.5.5.6
        Ceiling surfaces, see also Beam construction (ceiling); Smooth
   Rceilings; Solid joist construction
            Girder (definition), 3.3.40.2
 OCells, see also Batteries

F Absorbed glass mat (AGM), A.10.6.10
Definition, 3.3.41.2.1                                                          10.6.7.4.1, 29.9.4, A.10.6.5.1.2, A.23.6.3.3.3.2,

Definition, 3.3.41                                                              A.23.6.3.6.2

Gelled electrolyte (gell cell), A.10.6.10                                       Class, 23.4.3, F.1, F.3

Definition, 3.3.41.2.2                                                          Combination household signaling systems, 29.10.7.6

Primary (dry)                                                                   Definition, 3.3.48

Definition, 3.3.41.1                                                            Designations, 23.4.2, A.23.4.2.2

Starved electrolyte, A.10.6.10                                                  Disconnecting means, 10.6.5.2, 10.6.5.4, 21.4.1, 21.4.3, 21.4.4,
    Definition, 3.3.41.2                                                                       A.10.6.5.2.2, A.21.4.1, A.21.4.3, A.21.4.4

Unit (multi-cell)                                                               Elevator shutdown, control circuits for, 21.4.4, 21.4.5, A.21.4.4
    Definition, 3.3.41.3                                                        Ground connections, 12.2.4, A.12.2.4.3

                                                                                Identification and accessibility, 10.6.5.2, A.10.6.5.2.2

                                                                                                                                           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-392                                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Identification nomenclature, 12.7, A.12.7                            Public emergency alarm reporting systems wireless
                                                                             network, 27.4.3.6
        Integrity, 12.6, Table 14.4.3.2, 24.5.25.2(3), A.12.6
                                                                             Remote supervising stations, transmission from, 26.5.3.1.1
        Notification appliance, see Notification appliance circuits
                                                                             Retransmission to, 24.4.6.1.5, 26.2.1.2, 26.2.1.3, 26.3.2(3),
        Protected premises fire alarm systems, 23.4.2, 23.4.3, 27.2.4,                      26.3.6.6, 26.3.8.3.1(1), 26.4.6.1.3.3, 26.5.1.3,
                       A.23.4.2.2                                                           26.5.4.4, 26.5.6.3.1(1), 27.5.2.1.2, 27.5.2.1.3,
                                                                                            29.10.8.1.1(4), Table A.26.1, A.26.2.1.2,
        Protection, 10.6.5.3, 23.8.5.11, 27.7.3, A.27.7.3                                   A.26.2.1.3(3), A.26.3.6.6, A.26.3.8.3.1(1)
        Public emergency alarm reporting systems

        Alarm receiving equipment, 27.5.2.2.2, 27.5.2.2.3.1,                 Communications channels, 26.4.6.1.3, A.26.4.6.1.3.3
                       27.5.2.2.3.2, 27.5.2.3, 27.5.2.5, 27.5.4.1,               Definition, 3.3.47.1
                       A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to A.27.5.2.5.1(3)
                                                                             Communications circuits
        Box, see Box circuits
                                                                             Definition, 3.3.59
        Protection, circuit, 27.7.3, A.27.7.3
                                                                                 Emergency voice/alarm communications, 24.4.8.6, A.24.4.8.6.1,
          Public cable plant, 27.7, A.27.7.1.6.2, A.27.7.3                                       A.24.4.8.6.3
          Signal transmission facilities, 27.7.2
      Remote supervising station system, 26.5.1.5.2                              In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.4, A.24.5.4.1
                                                                                 Pathway survivability, 24.3.14, A.24.3.14.3, A.24.3.14.9
 Y Signaling lines, 23.4.2, 23.8.2.6, A.23.4.2.2                             Communications cloud (definition), 3.3.60
 L Status changes, display and recording of, 26.6.6.1, A.26.6.6.1            Compatibility, 10.3.3, 23.2.2.1.2, A.10.3.3, A.23.2.2.1.2, Table A.26.1,

      Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, 14.4.7, Annex F                                              F.1
                                                                             Completion, records of, see Records
 N Wiring diagrams, Annex F                                                  Completion documentation, 7.5, A.7.5.1 to A.7.5.8
                                                                             Computer systems
 Cloud chamber smoke detection (definition), 3.3.276.1
                                                                                 Alarms and supervisory signals, 26.2.8, 26.3.6.3
O Code                                                                           Communications center, 27.5.2.9
      Adoption requirements, 1.7                                                 Control, 23.2.2, A.23.2.2.1.1 to A.23.2.2.2
 E Definition, 3.2.3, A.3.2.3                                                    Distributed recipient mass notification systems, A.24.7.5
      Deviations from adopted code record of completion, Fig.                Condition, see also Abnormal (off-normal) condition; Alarm
   S 7.8.2(f), Fig. A.7.8.2(1)(f)
      Sample ordinance, Annex E                                                             condition; Normal condition; Supervisory condition;
                                                                                            Trouble condition
U Coded                                                                          Definition, 3.3.61, A.3.3.61
      Alarm signals, 10.11.4, 10.11.5, 10.14.4, A.10.11.4                        Pre-alarm, 10.8.2.1
 L Definition, 3.3.51, A.3.3.51                                                       Definition, 3.3.61.1.2, A.3.3.61.1.2
      Retransmission procedures, 26.4.6.1.3.3, A.26.4.6.1.3.3                Conductors
 A Supervisory signals, 10.14.3, 10.14.4                                         Circuit, 27.7.1.1
                                                                                 Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Combination carbon monoxide detection systems, see CarbonContiguous property, 26.4.2.2
     8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} monoxide detection systems                             Definition, 3.3.213.1
                                                                             Control circuits, 10.17, 21.2.4, A.10.17.2, A.21.2.4
ID Combination detectors, 14.4.5.8, 17.7.6.1.1, 17.9.1, 17.9.2, B.3.2.4.3    Control equipment, see also Local operating console (LOC)
      Definition, 3.3.70.4, A.3.3.70.4                                           Elevators, A.21.4.4
      Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.2.5, F.2.6                                      Emergency voice/alarm communications systems, 24.4.5,

IV Combination emergency communications systems, see Emergency                                   A.24.4.5.1
                 communications systems--combination                             Household signaling systems, A.29.6.3(2), A.29.10.7.8
                                                                                 In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.2.3 to 24.5.2.10,
D Combination fire alarm and guard's tour box, 17.15.3
      Definition, 3.3.12.2                                                                       24.5.12, A.24.5.2.3 to A.24.5.2.10, A.24.5.12.1
                                                                                 Inspections, Table 14.3.1
IN Combination fire alarm systems, 21.2.3, 23.3.3.1(13), 23.8.2.1 to             Software and firmware control, 23.2.2, A.23.2.2.1.1 to A.23.2.2.2
                 23.8.2.8, 23.8.4, 29.10.7, A.23.8.2.7.4, A.23.8.4.1 to          Testing, 14.4.2.1 to 14.4.2.3, Table 14.4.3.2
                 A.23.8.4.10, A.29.10.7.8
      Definition, 3.3.111.1, A.3.3.111.1
 R Inspections, Table 14.3.1
      Testing, Table 14.4.3.2

O Command center, emergency, see Emergency communications
F systems--emergency command center
Common talk mode, see Talk mode                                            Control units, see also Fire alarm control units
Communications center                                                          Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator communications
                                                                                               systems, 24.10.2 to 24.10.5, 24.10.7, 24.10.8,
    Alarm boxes, transmission from, see Alarm boxes                                            A.24.10.2 to A.24.10.5

        Alarm processing equipment, 27.5, A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to                 Audible signals on, 10.10.4, 10.11.8.1, 10.11.8.2, A.10.10.4
                       A.27.5.5.3.3                                          Autonomous control unit (ACU), 24.5.1.2(1), 24.5.11

        Alarm signal verification, 26.2.2, A.26.2.2                              Definition, 3.3.63.1, A.3.3.63.1
        Circuit protection, 27.7.3, A.27.7.3                                 Carbon monoxide detection systems, 29.7, A.29.7
        Definition, 3.3.57, A.3.3.57                                         Definition, 3.3.63
        Indicator of signal transmitted to, 27.6.1.4, A.27.6.1.4             Diagrams, 7.4.7
        Power supply messages, transmission of, 27.6.6.10.5, 27.6.6.10.6,    Elevators, 21.4.5, 21.4.6, A.21.4.4

                       27.6.6.11.4.1, 27.6.6.11.5, 27.6.6.13.2.1

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                 INDEX                                                                            72-393

Emergency communications control unit (ECCU), 24.3.10,                           In ducts, see Ducts, detectors in
               24.11.2, A.24.3.10                                                Inspection, Table 14.3.1
                                                                                 Positive alarm sequence, use of, 23.8.1.2, A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6),
    Definition, 3.3.63.2
Household signaling systems, 29.10.6, A.29.10.6.2                                               A.23.8.1.2.1.2

In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.2(1), 24.5.1.2(6),                 Device (Class N), 21.2.6, 23.6.2, 23.8.2.6.3, A.12.3.6(1), A.12.3.6(5),
               24.5.1.3, 24.5.8                                                                 A.23.6.2

Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                          Definition, 3.3.71, A.3.3.71

Visible signals on, 10.11.8.1, 10.11.8.2                                Digital alarm communicator receiver (DACR), 26.6.4.1.2,
                                                                                 26.6.4.1.5(8), 26.6.4.2, Table A.26.6.1, A.26.6.4.1.3(C),
Wireless (definition), 3.3.63.4 see also Radio alarm system (RAS)                A.26.6.4.1.5(8), A.26.6.4.2.2(A), A.26.6.4.2.2(D)

Control valves, 17.17.1                                                          Change of status signals, 26.6.6.5(5)

Converters, 27.5.2.5.1(3), 27.5.2.6, A.27.5.2.5.1(3)                             Definition, 3.3.72

Corridors, visual notification appliances located on, 18.5.5.6,                      Equipment, 26.6.4.2.1
                        A.18.5.5.6                                                   Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
        Coverage, detector, 17.5.3, A.17.5.3                                         Transmission channel, 26.6.4.2.2, A.26.6.4.2.2(A),

        Y -D-                                                                                        A.26.6.4.2.2(D)
 L DACR, see Digital alarm communicator receiver (DACR)                          Digital alarm communicator system (DACS), 26.6.4, Table A.26.6.1,

        DACS, see Digital alarm communicator system (DACS)                                      A.26.6.4.1.1 to A.26.6.4.2.2(D)
                                                                                     Definition, 3.3.73
 N DACT, see Digital alarm communicator transmitter (DACT)                           Power supplies, 10.6.9.2, A.10.6.9.2
                                                                                 Digital alarm communicator transmitter (DACT), 26.6.4.1,
        Dampers, smoke and fire, 21.7.2, A.21.7.2
                                                                                                A.26.6.4.1.1 to A.26.6.4.1.5(8)
 O DARR, see Digital alarm radio receiver (DARR)                                     Definition, 3.3.74
                                                                                     Household signaling systems, 29.10.9.10.1 to 29.10.9.10.4
        DARS, see Digital alarm radio system (DARS)                                  Inspection, Table 14.3.1
                                                                                     Power failure indication, 10.6.9.1.2
 E DART, see Digital alarm radio transmitter (DART)                                  Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                                     Transmission channels, 26.6.4.1.4, A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6)
        Day-care homes, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1; see also Household signaling           Transmission means, 26.6.4.1.4, 26.6.4.1.5, A.26.6.3,

    S systems                                                                                        A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6), A.26.6.4.1.5(4), A.26.6.4.1.5(8)
                                                                                 Digital alarm radio receiver (DARR)
            Definition, 3.3.64
                                                                                     Definition, 3.3.75
 U Dedicated fire alarm control units, see Fire alarm control units                  Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                                 Digital alarm radio system (DARS), see also Digital alarm radio
        Dedicated function fire alarm system, see Fire alarm systems
                                                                                                receiver (DARR); Digital alarm radio transmitter
 L Deficiencies, 14.2.2.2                                                                       (DART)
            Definition, 3.3.67                                                       Definition, 3.3.76
                                                                                 Digital alarm radio transmitter (DART)
 A Definitions, Chap. 3                                                              Definition, 3.3.77
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Delinquency signal, 23.14.4, 23.14.7, 26.6.6.2, A.26.6.6.2(4)    Inspection, Table 14.3.1
                                                                                     Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Definition, 3.3.263.3                                   Digital cellular, A.26.6.3
                                                                                 Display, 26.4.4.2.2.1, 26.4.4.2.2.2, 26.4.4.2.2.4, 26.4.4.3, 26.4.4.4,
 ID Design, fire alarm systems, 10.4, A.10.4.1 to A.10.4.5, Table A.26.1,                       A.26.4.4.3
                        Annex B                                                      Definition, 3.3.78
            Documentation, 7.3, A.7.3.1 to A.7.3.9.1                                 Transmission requirements, 26.6.6, A.26.6.6.1 to A.26.6.6.5
  IV Emergency communications systems, 24.3.9, 24.4.2.2.1,                       Distinctive signals, 10.10, 23.8.4.7, 29.10.6.7, 29.10.7.3, 29.10.7.4,
                            24.4.8.6.1, 24.5.3.2, 24.5.22.3.2, 24.6.9, 24.9.2,                  A.10.10.4, A.23.8.4.7
                            A.24.3.9, A.24.4.8.6.1, A.24.6.9                         Audible notification appliances, 18.4.2, A.18.4.2.1, A.18.4.2.4
  D Performance-based, see Performance-based design
  IN Protected premises alarm systems, 23.4.1, Annex C
            Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.2.1, A.27.2.1,
                            A.27.2.3
            Smoke detectors, 17.7.1.1 to 17.7.1.3, A.17.7.1.1 to A.17.7.1.3

 R Design professional (definition), 3.3.69, A.3.3.69

        Detection

 OAbnormal condition, 10.8.1
F Alarm condition, 10.8.2
Normal condition, 10.8.2.4                                                       Evacuation, 18.4.2, A.18.4.2.1, A.18.4.2.4

Pre-alarm condition, 10.8.2.1                                                    Distributed recipient mass notification system, see One-way

Supervisory condition, 10.8.2.2                                                  emergency communications systems

    Trouble condition, 10.8.2.3                                                  Documentation, Chap. 7, 10.20, Table A.26.1; see also Emergency
Detection devices, 23.8.5.4, A.23.8.5.4.1, A.23.8.5.4.6.3                                       response plan; Records

Detectors, see also Automatic fire detectors; Carbon monoxide                    Central station service, 26.3.3.2, 26.3.4.1 to 26.3.4.4, A.26.3.4.1,
               detection systems; Combination detectors; Heat                                   A.26.3.4.2(2)
detectors; Multi-criteria detectors; Multi-sensor
detectors; Smoke detectors                                                       Completion, 7.5, A.7.5.1 to A.7.5.8; see also Records of
                                                                                                completion
Definition, 3.3.70
                                                                                 Design (layout), 7.3, 24.3.9, A.7.3.1 to A.7.3.9.1, A.24.3.9
Design documentation, 7.3.5

                                                                                                                                               2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-394                                                 NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Emergency communications systems, 24.4.8.1, 24.5.24.2, 24.13,         Elevators, 21.2.2, 23.15.1
                       A.24.5.24.2                                                Audible alarm notification appliances, 18.4.4.3
                                                                                  Emergency communications systems, 24.3.7.2, 24.3.14.10,
        Forms, 7.8, A.7.8.1.1 to A.7.8.2(2)                                                       24.4.8.5, 24.10, 24.11.1.2(3), A.24.10
        Masked thresholds, exceeding, 18.4.7.4

        Minimum required, 7.2, A.7.2                                          Fire service access, 21.5, A.21.5

        Personnel qualifications, 10.5.1.3, 10.5.4.4                          Hoistways, 21.3.3.1, 21.3.3.2, 21.3.6 to 21.3.8, 21.3.14.1(3),
                                                                              21.3.14.2(3), A.21.3.7, A.21.3.8, A.21.3.14.2(3)
        Public address system, 24.5.24.2, A.24.5.24.2
                                                                              Notification appliances in, 23.8.6.2, A.23.8.6.2
        Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.2, A.26.5.2.2(1)
                                                                              Occupant evacuation, 21.6, 24.3.7.2(6), 24.4.8.5, 24.10, A.21.5,
        Of revisions, 7.5.6.6, A.7.5.6.6.3                                    A.21.6, A.24.10

        Sequence of operations, 7.2.1(4), 7.4.9, 7.5.5.2, A.7.4.9, A.7.5.5.2  Phase 1 emergency recall operation, 21.3, 23.8.5.1.3, A.21.3

        Shop drawings, 7.4, A.7.4.1 to A.7.4.9                                    Shutdown, 21.4, A.21.4.1 to A.21.4.4
                                                                              Ember, B.5.1.4.2, B.5.3.1.3
      Testing, inspection, and maintenance, 7.2.1(17), 7.6, 7.7.1.1,
                      7.8.2, 14.2.5, 14.6, 26.3.9.2, A.7.8.2(1), A.7.8.2(2),      Definition, 3.3.87, A.3.3.87
                      A.14.6.1 to A.14.6.2.4                                  Ember detectors, 17.8, A.17.8.1 to A.17.8.5.4

          Test signals, 26.3.8.3.5.1                                              Definition, 3.3.70.21
                                                                                  Spacing, 17.8.3.3, A.17.8.3.3.1 to A.17.8.3.3.6
 Y Voice systems, intelligibility of, D.7.3                                       System design, B.5.3
L Door release service, 17.7.5.3.3, 17.7.5.6, 21.9, 23.15.3,                  Ember detector sensitivity, B.5.3.3, B.5.3.4.1
                                                                                  Definition, 3.3.284
                 A.17.7.5.6.5.1(C)                                            Emergency command center, see Emergency communications

N Doors, see also Double doorway                                                             systems--emergency command center
      Electrically locked, 21.10, A.21.10.1, A.21.10.3                        Emergency communications control unit (ECCU), see Control units
 O Fire and smoke, 21.7.2, A.21.7.2                                           Emergency communications equipment, Table 14.4.3.2, D.3.2
 Door unlocking devices, 23.15.4, 24.11.1.2(6)                                Emergency communications systems, Chap. 24; see also One-way

E Dormitories, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1; see also Household signaling                            emergency communications systems; Two-way
                 systems                                                                     emergency communications systems
 S Definition, 3.3.80                                                             Ancillary functions, 24.3.5, A.24.3.5.2
 Double doorway, 17.7.5.6.5.3, 17.7.5.6.5.4                                       Classification, 1.3.2, 24.3.7, A.24.3.7
                                                                                  Definition, 3.3.90
 U Definition, 3.3.81, A.3.3.81                                                   Emergency control functions, interface with, Chap. 21
                                                                                  Information, command, and control, 24.11, A.24.11
 Downlink (definition), 3.3.82                                                    Mass notification systems, 24.12, A.24.12.6.3, A.24.12.6.6
                                                                                  Messages, creation and dissemination of, Annex G
L Drawings, record, see Record drawings                                           Microphone use, 24.3.2, A.24.3.2
                                                                                  Nonrequired (voluntary) systems, 24.3.4, A.24.3.4
 Dry pipe sprinkler systems, 17.17.2.2.2, A.17.17.2.2.2                           Pathway survivability, 24.3.14, A.24.3.14.3, A.24.3.14.9
                                                                                  Power supplies, 10.6, A.10.6.1 to A.10.6.10.3.4
A Ducts, detectors in, 17.7.1.9, 17.7.4.4, 17.7.4.5, 17.7.5.2.1, 17.7.5.3.1,      Public emergency alarm reporting systems, connection to, 27.8,
                 17.7.5.3.4, 17.7.5.4.2, 17.7.5.5, 17.7.6.3.4, 21.7.4,
                                                                                                  A.27.8.1
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.17.7.1.9, A.17.7.4.4, A.17.7.5.2, A.17.7.5.4.2              Record of completion, Fig. 7.8.2(b), Fig. A.7.8.2(1)(b)
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Air sampling-type smoke detector, 17.7.3.6.4.1             Record of inspection and testing, Fig. 7.8.2(k)
 ID Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                      Required systems, 24.3.3, A.24.3.3
      Signal initiation, 23.8.5.4.6, A.23.8.5.4.6.3                               Stairway communication systems, 24.10, A.24.10
 IV Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                   Emergency communications systems--combination, 24.5.1.11,

 Dwelling units, see also Household signaling systems; One- and two-                         24.5.11.5, 24.5.11.6, 24.5.23, 24.5.25, A.24.5.23.1
                 family dwellings                                                 Definition, 3.3.91
                                                                              Emergency communications systems--emergency command
 D Definition, 3.3.83
                                                                                             center, 10.14.1(2), 24.11, A.24.11
      Detection, required, 29.8.1, A.29.8.1

 IN Fire alarm signals, 29.8.2.2, A.29.8.2.2

      Low-power radio (wireless) systems, 29.10.8, A.29.10.8.2.1,
                      A.29.10.8.2.4

 R Multiple dwelling unit (definition), 3.3.83.1

      Protected premises alarm systems interconnected, 23.8.3

 OSingle dwelling unit (definition), 3.3.83.2
F -E-

Effective masked threshold, 18.4.7, A.18.4.7                                  Definition, 3.3.92, A.3.3.92

        Definition, 3.3.84                                                    Loudspeakers, use of, 24.3.5.2(1)

Electrical cabinet, air sampling-type detectors for, 17.7.3.6.4.2,                Mass notification system, 24.5.8, A.24.5.2.2
               A.17.7.3.6.4.2                                                     Secondary power system, 10.6.7.2.1.6
                                                                                  Wide-area mass notification systems, 24.6.4
Electrical conductivity heat detectors (definition), 3.3.70.5                 Emergency control function interface devices, 21.2.4 to 21.2.6,
Electrically locked doors, 21.10, A.21.10.1, A.21.10.3
Electrochemical energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.2                                21.2.8 to 21.2.10, 23.8.2.6.1, A.21.2.4

Electromechanical releasing device, Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2,                 Definition, 3.3.93, A.3.3.93
               Fig. F.3.3                                                     Emergency control function interfaces, Chap. 21, 24.5.22.2; see also

    Definition, 3.3.86                                                                       Emergency control function interface devices

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                   INDEX                                                                           72-395

Definition, 3.3.146.1.1, A.3.3.146.1.1                                          Error detection/correction, 26.6.3.11

Emergency control functions, 14.2.7, Table 14.4.3.2, 23.3.3.1(5),               Escape route, 29.6.2, A.29.6.2
23.8.2.6.1, 23.8.5.4.4, 23.15, A.14.2.7.1
                                                                                Evacuation, 23.8.6.1.1, 23.10.2, A.23.8.6.2, A.23.10.2, C.2.2.1.3
Definition, 3.3.94, A.3.3.94
                                                                                Definition, 3.3.100, A.3.3.100
Interfaces, see Emergency control function interfaces
                                                                                Distinctive signals, 10.10.7
Status indicators, 10.16, A.10.16.2
                                                                                Occupant evacuation elevators, see Elevators
Emergency lighting, proprietary supervising station, 26.4.3.4
                                                                                Partial, 24.4.8, A.24.4.8
Emergency response agency (ERA), 29.2.4.1.4(1), A.26.5.3,
A.29.10.9.2                                                                     Positive alarm sequence, use of, 23.8.1.2.1.1, A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6)

Definition, 3.3.95, A.3.3.95                                                    Voice, 23.9, 24.4.2, A.24.4.2.2.2

Emergency response facility (ERF), 27.5.2.2.4, 27.5.4.1.6.2,                    Elevators, 21.6.2.3.3, 21.6.2.6.1 to 21.6.2.6.4, A.21.6.2.3.3,
                                                                                A.21.6.2.6.3, A.21.6.2.6.4
                        27.5.5.1.2.1, 27.5.5.1.2.3, 27.7.3.6; see also Emergency
                        communications systems--emergency command center                 In-building emergency voice/alarm communication
            Definition, 3.3.96, A.3.3.96                                                                 systems, 24.4.8, A.24.4.8
        Emergency response plan, 24.3.12.10, 24.3.13, A.24.3.13
                                                                                         Tone preceding and following, 24.3.6.4
  Y Definition, 3.3.97                                                          Evacuation signals, 18.4.1.5, 23.8.6.2.3, 23.8.6.2.4, 24.4.1.2,
  L Documentation, 7.3.8
                                                                                               24.4.8.5.1, 29.2, 29.5.1, A.18.4.1.5.1, A.18.4.1.5.2, A.29.2,
            Emergency command center, 24.11.1.3, 24.11.1.4, 24.11.2.1,                         A.29.5.1; see also Fire alarm/evacuation signal tone
                                                                                               generator
    N 24.11.3, 24.11.4.2, 24.11.6, A.24.11.1.4, A.24.11.3,                          Control units, interconnected, 23.8.2.7.1
                                                                                    Definition, 3.3.263.4
                            A.24.11.6                                               Distinctive, 18.4.2, A.18.4.2.1, A.18.4.2.4
                                                                                Evaluation documentation, 7.3.9, A.7.3.9.1
  O Mass notification systems                                                   Executive software, 14.4.2.5
                 In-building, 24.5.1.7, 24.5.2.2, 24.5.8, 24.5.9.1, 24.5.9.3,       Definition, 3.3.279.1
                                 24.5.10, 24.5.13.1 to 24.5.13.4, 24.5.13.6,    Exit marking audible notification appliances, 18.4.1.7, 18.4.8, 21.11,
     E 24.5.22.1.3(5), 24.5.24.2, A.24.5.2.2, A.24.5.10,                                       23.15.5, A.18.4.8.1 to A.18.4.8.5, A.21.11
                                 A.24.5.13.1, A.24.5.13.6(2), A.24.5.24.2           Definition, 3.3.182.1.1
  S Wide-area, 24.6.1.2, 24.6.1.3, 24.6.5.3                                         Inspections, Table 14.3.1
        Emergency service communications center, see Communications                 Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                                Exit plan, 29.6.2, A.29.6.2
    U center                                                                    Exits
                                                                                    Door release service, 17.7.5.3.3, 17.7.5.6, 23.15.3,
        Emergency voice/alarm communications, 23.3.3.1(7), 23.9,
                                                                                                    A.17.7.5.6.5.1(C)
    L A.24.3.10; see also In-building fire emergency voice/                         Door unlocking devices for, 23.15.4
                                                                                    Emergency communications systems, 24.4.8.5.1, 24.4.8.5.2
                        alarm communications systems (EVACS); Intelligibility       Notification appliances, exit stair enclosures/exit

  A Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                                        passageways, 23.8.6.2, A.23.8.6.2
                                                                                Extinguishers, portable fire, 26.4.3.3
            Live voice, 14.4.11, 23.9.3, 24.3.1, 24.4.5.7, 24.5.2.2, 24.5.2.8,
                                                                                    Electronic monitoring devices, Table 14.4.3.2, 17.16, 23.8.4.10,
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U 24.5.12.9, 24.5.13.2, 24.6.1, A.14.4.11, A.24.3.1.1,                            A.23.8.4.10
         8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.24.3.1.2, A.24.5.2.2
  ID Localized messaging, 24.5.3.1, A.24.5.3.1                                           Definition, 3.3.113
            Manual controls, 24.4.5.6                                           Extinguishing systems, see also Waterflow alarms
  IV Prerecorded (digital) voice and tone fire alarm systems, 14.4.11,
                            23.10, A.14.4.11, A.23.10.2                             Abnormal conditions, monitoring of, 23.3.3.1(3)
            Secondary power system, 10.6.7.2.1.2                                    Automatic operation detectors, 17.13, 17.14, A.17.13.1,
  D Tampering with, A.24.3.5.2
        Endpoint (Class N), 12.3.6, 12.3.8, A.12.3.6(1) to A.12.3.6(5),                             A.17.13.2, A.17.14
    IN A.12.3.8                                                                          Definition, 3.3.70.3
            Definition, 3.3.98, A.3.3.98                                            Initiating devices and release service, 23.3.3.1(4), 23.8.5.4.4,
        Energy storage systems (ESS), 10.6.4, 10.6.6.3.1, 10.6.6.3.2, A.10.6.4
  R Chemical energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.1                                          23.8.5.7, 23.8.5.10, 23.11, 26.2.1.1, A.23.11.7
            Definition, 3.3.99, A.3.3.99
 OElectrochemical energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.2

F Mechanical energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.3
Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                         Auxiliary fire alarm systems, Table 27.6.3.2.2.3

Thermal energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.3                           Inspection, Table 14.3.1

Enforcement                                                                         Supervisory devices, see Automatic extinguishing system
    Requirements, 1.7                                                                               supervisory devices
    Sample ordinance, Annex E
                                                                                    Testing, 14.2.6, Table 14.4.3.2
Engine-driven generators, 10.6.4.2, 10.6.5.1.1, 10.6.7.3.1, 10.6.7.4.1,         Special suppression systems, predischarge notification
               10.6.7.4.2, 10.6.9.1.6, 10.6.11
                                                                                               for, 24.4.7.1, A.24.4.7.1
    Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.5.2.7                          Supervisory devices and signal initiation, see Automatic
    Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                                               extinguishing system supervisory devices

Engineering guide for automatic fire detector spacing, Annex B                                                             -F-
Equivalency to code, 1.5                                                        FACP, see Fire alarm control units (FACU)

                                                                                                                                  2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-396                                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

False alarms, see Unwanted alarms                                                Ancillary functions, 24.3.5, A.24.3.5.2

Fan, high volume low speed (HVLS), 21.8                                          Central station, see Central station service alarm systems

        Definition, 3.3.132                                                      Classification, 1.3.1

Fan control, 21.7.2, 21.8, A.21.7.2                                              Combination, 23.3.3.1(13), 23.8.2.1 to 23.8.2.8, 23.8.4,
Federal Communications Commission, 26.6.2.3.1, 27.4.3.2, Table                                  A.23.8.2.7.4, A.23.8.4.1 to A.23.8.4.10

               A.26.6.1                                                              Definition, 3.3.111.1, A.3.3.111.1

Fiber optic cables, see Cables                                                   Compatibility, 10.3.3, A.10.3.3, Table A.26.1

Field of view (definition), 3.3.106                                              Dedicated function systems, 23.3.3.2, A.23.3.3.2

Fire alarm and guard's tour box, combination, 17.15.3                            Definition, 3.3.111.4.2

        Definition, 3.3.12.2                                                     Definition, 3.3.111

Fire alarm boxes, see Alarm boxes                                                Design, see Design, fire alarm systems

 Fire alarm control interface (FACI), see Interface                                  Documentation, see Records
 Fire alarm control units (FACU), 10.4.4, 10.4.5, 10.14.1(1),                        Emergency control functions, interface with, Chap. 21
                                                                                     Fundamentals, Chap. 10
                 10.14.6.1, 21.2.5, 21.2.6, A.10.4.4, A.10.4.5, F.1                  Household, see Household signaling systems
                                                                                     Initiating device, connection to, 17.4.5, A.17.4.5
 Y Building system information units, located with, 23.8.4.2.2.1 to                  Installation, 10.5.2, 29.3.2, 29.3.3, 29.6.3, 29.11, A.29.3.3,
                      23.8.4.2.2.3, A.23.8.4.2.2.2
                                                                                                     A.29.6.3, A.29.11.2.1 to A.29.11.4.7
 L Dedicated function, 10.4.6, 21.3.2, 21.4.5, 21.4.6, 23.8.5.5.1,                   Interfaces, see Interface equipment
                      23.8.5.6.1, A.21.3.2                                           Municipal (definition), 3.3.111.3
 N Definition, 3.3.108.2.1, A.3.3.108.2.1                                            Notification appliances, see Notification appliances
      Definition, 3.3.108, A.3.3.108                                                 Power supply, see Power supplies
                                                                                     Protected premises, see Protected premises (local) alarm and
 O Elevators, 21.3.1, 21.3.2, 21.3.14, 21.4.5, 21.4.6, A.21.3.2,
                      A.21.3.14.1 to A.21.3.14.2(3)                                                  signaling systems
                                                                                 Fire command center, see also Emergency communications systems
 E Exits, unlocking of, 21.10.3, A.21.10.3
                                                                                                --emergency command center
      Household signaling systems, 29.10.6.7 to 29.10.6.10, 29.14.3                  Definition, 3.3.112, A.3.3.112
                                                                                 Fire doors, 21.7.2, A.21.7.2
 S In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.3, 24.5.13.7                    Fire emergency voice/alarm communications system, see

      Inspections, Table 14.3.1                                                                 Emergency communications systems
                                                                                 Fire extinguisher electronic monitoring devices, 17.16, 23.8.4.10,
 U Master, 10.6.8.2, 10.6.8.3, 24.10.2 to 24.10.8, 26.6.2.1, A.24.10.2,
                      A.24.10.5, A.24.10.7                                                      A.23.8.4.10
 L Definition, 3.3.108.1                                                             Definition, 3.3.113
      Protected premises (local), 23.8.5.4.2, 23.8.5.8.1, 26.4.2.3,              Firefighter's Smoke Control Station (FCFS), 21.7.7, 24.11.1.2(6)
                                                                                 Fire­gas detectors, Table 14.4.3.2
   A 26.4.6.1.3.1, 26.6.6.1, A.26.6.6.1, C.2.2.1.5                                   Definition, 3.3.70.6
                                                                                 Fire growth, B.2.3.1.4.1, B.2.3.2.1.2, B.2.3.2.3, B.3.2.6
          Dedicated function, see subhead: Dedicated function                    Fire models
                                                                                     Computer, B.6
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Definition, 3.3.108.2                                            Detector response, B.5.1.6
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Positive alarm sequence, acknowledgment of, 23.8.1.2.1.1,Fire pumps
    ID A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6)                                                             Monitoring, 23.8.5.9.1, 23.8.5.9.2
          Releasing service, 23.8.5.10                                               Signal initiation, 23.8.5.9
  IV Definition, 3.3.108.2.2                                                     Fire service access elevators, 21.5, A.21.5
          System requirements, 23.8.2, A.23.8.2                                  Fire service communications center, see Communications center
      Real-time data, transmission of, 23.12.4.1                                 Fire wardens, 24.8.4, 24.8.13
 D Remote, 24.4.8.6.4                                                                Definition, 3.3.114
      Software and firmware control, 23.2.2, A.23.2.2.1.1 to A.23.2.2.2
 IN Testing, 14.4.4.2, F.2.1 to F.2.5, F.2.7
      Trouble signals, transmission of, 23.12.3

 Fire alarm/evacuation signal tone generator, 10.19.1, Table 14.4.3.2,

  R23.10, 24.4.4, A.10.19.1, A.23.10.2, A.24.4.4.2,

                 A.24.4.4.3; see also Alert tone

 ODefinition, 3.3.109
FFire alarm signals, 10.11, A.10.11.1 to A.10.11.6; see also Alarm
              signals; Fire alarm/evacuation signal tone generator               Fire warning equipment, 29.2.1, 29.3.2; see also Heat detectors;
                                                                                 Household signaling systems; Smoke detectors
        Combination systems, 29.10.7.2 to 29.10.7.4, 29.10.7.6, 29.10.7.7
                                                                                 Definition, 3.3.115
        Definition, 3.3.263.5, A.3.3.263.5
                                                                                 Evacuation signals, 29.5.1, A.29.5.1
        Distinctive signals, 10.10.1, 10.10.2
                                                                                 Fixed-temperature detectors, 14.4.4.5, 14.6.2.2, 17.6.2.1,
        Initiation, see Alarm boxes; Initiating devices                                         17.6.2.2.1.1, 17.6.2.3.1, 17.7.6.1.1, 29.10.4.2, A.29.10.4.2
        Keypad signal, activation of, 29.10.9.9
        Presignal feature, 23.8.1.1, A.23.8.1.1                                      Definition, 3.3.70.7, A.3.3.70.7
        Priority of, 10.7.2, 24.5.1.7, 24.5.13.4, 29.10.7.2, 29.10.7.7,              Spacing, B.3.2.4.2, B.3.2.4.3, B.3.3.1
                                                                                     Test methods, Table 14.4.3.2
                       A.24.5.7
                                                                                 Flame, B.5.1.4.1, B.5.2.1.1
        Secondary power supply, use of, 29.9.5(3)
                                                                                 Definition, 3.3.118
Fire alarm systems, see also Inspections; Maintenance; Testing

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                           INDEX                                                                                      72-397

Flame detectors, 17.8, A.17.8.1 to A.17.8.5.4                                      Definition, 3.3.129.1

Definition, 3.3.70.8, A.3.3.70.8                                                   Performance of, 29.10.4, A.29.10.4

Spacing, 17.8.3.2, A.17.8.3.2.1 to A.17.8.3.2.6                                    Power supplies, household fire alarm systems, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)

System design, B.5.2                                                               Testing, 29.10.5

Video image flame detection, see Video image flame detection                       Heat detectors, 10.4.5, 10.4.6, 17.5, 17.6, A.10.4.5, A.17.5.2 to
               (VIFD)                                                                             A.17.5.3.3, A.17.6.1.1 to A.17.6.3.6

Flame detector sensitivity, B.5.2.1, B.5.2.3, B.5.2.4                              Color coding, 17.6.2.2.1

Definition, 3.3.120                                                                Correlations, B.3.3.3, B.3.3.4

Floor plan drawings, 7.4.5                                                         Coverage, 17.5.3, A.17.5.3

Follow-up program, 26.3.4, A.26.3.4                                                Definition, 3.3.70.10

Frequency                                                                          Design documentation, 7.3.5.1

            Annual (definition), 3.3.121.5                                             Electrical conductivity (definition), 3.3.70.5
            Definition, 3.3.121                                                        Elevators, 21.4.1, 21.4.2, A.21.4.1, A.21.4.2
            Monthly (definition), 3.3.121.2                                            Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Table 14.3.1, Table

  Y Quarterly (definition), 3.3.121.3                                                                  14.4.3.2, 14.4.4.5, 14.6.2.2
                                                                                       Installation, 17.4.3 to 17.4.7, 29.3.3, 29.11.4, A.17.4.5 to A.17.4.7,
            Semiannual (definition), 3.3.121.4
                                                                                                       A.29.3.3, A.29.11.4, B.1.3.2
  L Weekly (definition), 3.3.121.1                                                     Location, 17.6.3, 29.3.3, 29.11.4, A.17.6.3.1.1 to A.17.6.3.6,
 N Fuel, 10.6.11.6
                                                                                                       A.29.3.3, A.29.11.4
                                                   -G-                                 Performance, 29.10.1, 29.10.4, A.29.10.4, B.3
                                                                                       Self-diagnostic, 29.10.1
 O Gas detectors, 7.3.5.4, 17.10, A.17.10.2.4                                          Spacing, see Spacing
                                                                                       Temperature classification, 17.6.2.1, Table 17.6.2.1
            Definition, 3.3.70.9                                                       Theoretical considerations, B.3.3.2
                                                                                   Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, 17.7.4,
 E Gateway, 23.8.2.6.2
  S Definition, 3.3.122                                                                           17.7.6.3.4, 17.12.9.1, 21.7, 23.15.2, A.17.7.4.1,
                                                                                                  A.17.7.4.4, A.21.7.2, B.4.10
        Generators, see Engine-driven generators                                   High air movement areas, 17.7.6.3, Fig. 17.7.6.3.3.2, A.17.7.6.3.3
                                                                                   High power loudspeaker array (HPLA), 24.6.5 to 24.6.9, A.24.6.7.2,
 U Girders, ceiling (definition), 3.3.40.2                                                        A.24.6.9
                                                                                       Definition, 3.3.131
        Guard's tour                                                                   Secondary power system, 10.6.7.2.1.4
                                                                                   High-rack storage, 17.7.6.2, A.17.7.6.2
  L Equipment inspection, Table 14.3.1                                             High volume low speed (HVLS) fan, 21.8
                                                                                       Definition, 3.3.132
            Equipment testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                      Hold-up alarms, 10.7.8
                                                                                   Hotels, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1, D.3.6.1, D.3.6.3, D.3.6.7; see also
  A Supervisory service, 23.3.3.1(10), 23.13, 23.14                                               Household signaling systems
                                                                                       Definition, 3.3.133
            Suppressed signal system, 23.14, 26.6.4.2.2(E)                         Household carbon monoxide detection systems, see Carbon
                                                                                                  monoxide detection systems
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Transmitter, 26.6.4.2.2(F)                                     Household signaling systems, 17.1.5, Chap. 29; see also Carbon
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Guard's tour box and fire alarm system, combination, 17.15.3               monoxide detection systems
  ID Definition, 3.3.12.2                                                              Assumptions, 29.6, A.29.6.1 to A.29.6.3
        Guard's tour reporting stations, 23.13                                              Equipment, 29.6.3, A.29.6.3
  IV Definition, 3.3.124                                                                    Escape route, 29.6.2, A.29.6.2
        Guard's tour supervisory signal, 26.3.8.3.2, 26.4.6.1.6.2                           Occupants, 29.6.1, A.29.6.1
            Definition, 3.3.263.6, A.3.3.263.6                                         Basic requirements, 29.3, A.29.3.3
 D Guest rooms, 29.8.1.1, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1(1) to A.29.8.1.1(5)                     Combination system, 29.10.7, A.29.10.7.8
  IN Definition, 3.3.126
        Guest suites, 29.8.1.1(5), A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1(5)
            Definition, 3.3.127
   R -H-
        Hearing loss
 ODefinition, 3.3.128, A.3.3.128

F Notification appliances for persons with, 29.5.9, 29.5.10,
                            A.24.4.4.2, A.29.5.10.1 to A.29.5.10.2(1)
                                                                                   Definition, 3.3.111.2
Profound
                                                                                   Detection, 29.8, A.29.8.1 to A.29.8.2.2; see also Heat detectors;
Definition, 3.3.128.1                                                                             Smoke detectors
Notification appliances for persons with, 29.5.10.2,
                                                                                   Equipment
               A.24.4.4.2, A.29.5.10.2
                                                                                   Installation, 29.11.5
Heat alarms, 29.8.2.1.1, A.29.8.2.1.1
                                                                                   Performance, 29.10, A.29.10.2 to A.29.10.9.7
Definition, 3.3.129
                                                                                   Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Fig. 7.8.2(m), 14.4.6,
Installation, 29.1.2, 29.11.4, A.29.1.2, A.29.11.4                                                29.6.3, 29.13, A.14.4.6.3, A.29.6.3
Interconnection of, 29.11.2, A.29.11.2.1
Mechanically powered, single-station, 29.5.2, 29.8.2.1.1,                          Installation, 29.11, A.29.11.2.1 to A.29.11.4.7
                                                                                   Markings and instructions, 29.14, A.29.14.5(7)
               A.29.8.2.1.1

                                                                                                                                 2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-398                                       NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Notification appliances, see Notification appliances             Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3.2, F.2.1 to F.2.8, F.2.14, F.2.15

    Occupant notification, required, 29.8.2, A.29.8.2.1.1, A.29.8.2.2    Initiating devices, 10.12.5, Chap. 17, 23.3.3.1(2); see also Automatic
    Optional functions, 29.12                                                           fire detectors
    Power supplies, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)
    Remote annunciation, 29.4                                                Automatic extinguishing system supervisory devices, see
    Waterflow alarm connected to, 29.10.7.8.4                                                Automatic extinguishing system supervisory devices
Hunt groups, 26.6.4.2.2, Table A.26.6.1, A.26.6.4.2.2(A),
                                                                             Auxiliary fire alarm systems, 27.6.3.2.2.3, 27.6.3.2.3.15
               A.26.6.4.2.2(D)                                               Definition, 3.3.141
    Definition, 3.3.135                                                      Elevator recall for fire fighters' service, 21.3, A.21.3
    Loading capacities, 26.6.4.2.2(D), A.26.6.4.2.2(D)                       Elevators, occupant evacuation, 21.6.2.1, 21.6.2.3, 21.6.2.5,

                                                                                             A.21.6.2.1.1, A.21.6.2.3.1 to A.21.6.2.3.6, A.21.6.2.5
                                                                             Elevator shutdown, 21.4, A.21.4.1 to A.21.4.4

              -I-                                                        Extinguishing system operation, detection of, 17.13, A.17.13.1,
                                                                                             A.17.13.2
 Identified (as applied to equipment)                                        Fire alarm system, connection to, 17.4.5, A.17.4.5
      Definition, 3.3.136, A.3.3.136                                         General requirements, 17.4, A.17.4.2.3 to A.17.4.7
                                                                             Household signaling systems, 29.10.6.7
Y Immediately (definition), 3.3.137, A.3.3.137                               In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.2(5), 24.5.1.6,

 Impairments, 10.21, 14.2.2.2, 24.5.5, A.10.21                                               24.5.9, A.24.5.9.2
                                                                             Inspection, Table 14.3.1
 L Definition, 3.3.138, A.3.3.138                                            Installation, 10.4.7, 17.4, 21.3.6 to 21.3.10, A.17.4.2.3 to A.17.4.7,

 In-building fire emergency voice/alarm communications systems                               A.21.3.8 to A.21.3.10
                                                                             Manual initiation, see Alarm boxes
  N (EVACS), 23.3.3.1(7), 23.9, 24.4, A.24.4; see also                       Performance-based design, 17.3, A.17.3
                                                                             Protected premises alarm systems, 23.4.2, 23.8.1.2.1.1, 23.8.5,
                 Emergency voice/alarm communications; Intelligibility
                                                                                             A.23.4.2.2, A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6), A.23.8.5.1.2 to
 O Definition, 3.3.90.1.2                                                                    A.23.8.5.8, C.2.2.2.3
                                                                             Record of inspection and testing, Fig. 7.8.2(i)
      Elevators, occupant evacuation, 21.6.2.3.3, 21.6.2.6, 21.6.2.8,        Signal disposition, 26.2.1.1
                                                                             Status changes, display and recording of, 26.6.6.1, A.26.6.6.1
   E 21.6.2.9.2, A.21.6.2.3.3, A.21.6.2.6, A.21.6.2.8                        Supervisory signals, see Supervisory signal initiating devices
                                                                             Testing, 14.4.2.1, 14.4.2.2, 14.4.2.4(2), Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3.2
      Monitoring, 10.19, A.10.19.1                                           Waterflow alarms, see Waterflow alarms
                                                                         Inspection personnel, see Personnel
 S Voice evacuation messages, 24.4.2, A.24.4.2.2.2                       Inspections, 10.3.2, 14.1 to 14.3, A.14.2.1.1 to A.14.3.1
                                                                             Documentation and records, 7.2.1(17), 7.6, 7.8.2, Figs. 7.8.2(g)
 In-building mass notification systems, 23.8.6, 24.5, A.23.8.6.2,                            to (m), 14.6.2, A.7.8.2(1), A.7.8.2(2), A.14.6.2.4
                                                                             Emergency communications systems, 24.3.5.3, 24.5.6, 24.11.7
  U A.23.8.6.3.3, A.24.5; see also In-building fire emergency                Frequency, 14.3.1 to 14.3.3, Table 14.3.1, 14.4.5.2, A.14.3.1
                                                                             Household signaling systems, 14.4.6, A.14.4.6.3
                 voice/alarm communications systems                          Personnel, 10.5.3, 14.2.3.6, A.10.5.3, A.14.2.3.6
                                                                                  Definition, 3.3.200.1
 L Autonomous control unit, 24.5.11                                          Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.3.4
                                                                             Smoke alarms, 14.4.5.1 to 14.4.5.4, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4
      Definition, 3.3.90.1.3                                                 Supervising station alarm systems, 26.5.2, 26.5.9, A.26.5.2.2(1)
                                                                             Visual, 14.3.1, Table 14.3.1, 14.3.5, A.14.3.1
 A Elevators, occupant evacuation, 21.6.2.3.3, A.21.6.2.3.3              Installation, 1.1.1, 1.2.3, 10.3.2, 10.4, A.10.4.1 to A.10.4.5
                                                                             Alarm boxes, publicly accessible, 27.6.2.1.11, A.27.6.2.1.11.2
      Emergency response plan, 24.5.1.7, 24.5.10, A.24.5.10                  Carbon monoxide detection systems, 17.12.1, 17.12.6, 17.12.8,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Impairments, 24.5.5
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Initiating devices, 24.5.9, A.24.5.9.2
 ID Initiation indication, 24.5.8
      Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Table 14.3.1, Table
   IV 14.4.3.2, 24.5.6
      Interfaces, 24.5.10, 24.5.22, 24.5.25, 24.6.13.3, A.24.5.10,
                      A.24.5.22.1.3, A.24.5.22.3.1
 D Local operating console, see Local operating console (LOC)
      Notification appliances, 24.5.16 to 24.5.21, A.24.5.18 to
   IN A.24.5.20
      Notification coverage, 24.5.3, A.24.5.3.1, A.24.5.3.4
      Pathway survivability, 24.3.14.4, 24.3.14.5
 R Priority of signals, 24.5.1.7
      Public address systems, 24.5.24, 24.5.25, A.24.5.24.2
 ORisk analysis for, see Risk analysis

FSecondary power system, 10.6.7.2.1.7
        System operation, 24.5.2, A.24.5.2.1 to A.24.5.2.10              29.3.2, 29.3.3, A.17.12.1(1), A.17.12.1(2), A.29.3.3

        System priorities, 24.5.7, A.24.5.7                              Circuits and pathways, 12.2.3, A.12.2.3.2 to A.12.2.3.4

    Voice messages, 24.5.1.6, 24.5.13, A.24.5.13.1, A.24.5.13.6(2)       Documentation, 7.4, 7.5.2, 7.5.8, 14.6.1.1, 24.3.9.2, A.7.4.1 to
    Volume control, 24.5.15                                                             A.7.4.9, A.7.5.8
    Wide area mass notification systems, see One-way emergency
                                                                         Emergency communications systems, 24.1.1, 24.2.2, 24.3.9.2,
                    communications systems                                              24.5.1, 24.9.1.2, 24.9.2, A.24.5.1
Initiating device circuits, 23.4.2, 23.8.5.5.3, 23.8.5.6.3, A.23.4.2.2,
                                                                         Fire alarm systems, 10.5.2, 29.3.2, 29.3.3, 29.6.3, 29.11, A.29.1.1,
               A.23.8.5.5.3, A.23.8.5.6.3, F.1                                          A.29.3.3, A.29.6.3, A.29.11.2.1 to A.29.11.4.7
    Definition, 3.3.142
    Faults, 10.11.7                                                      Heat detectors, 29.11.4, A.29.11.4, B.1.3.2
    Performance/capacities, 23.5                                         Household signaling systems, 14.4.6.4, 29.1.1, A.29.1.1
                                                                         In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.4

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                INDEX                                                                       72-399

Initiating devices, 17.4.3 to 17.4.7, A.17.4.5 to A.17.4.7                    Definition, 3.3.146.1.2

Inspections, 14.2.1.1, 14.3.4, A.14.2.1.1                                     Testing, 14.4.4.4

Notification appliances, visual, 18.5.5.6.1                                   Emergency communications systems/public alarm reporting
                                                                              systems, 27.8.2
Protected premises alarm systems, 23.1.1, 23.4.1, A.23.1.1
                                                                              Emergency control function, see Emergency control function
Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.1.1, 27.1.2, 27.2.1,                            interfaces
               A.27.2.1, A.27.2.3
                                                                              Fire alarm control interface (FACI), 24.5.1.2(3), 24.5.22.1,
    Smoke detectors, see Smoke detectors                                                     A.24.5.22.1.3
    Supervising station alarm systems, 26.1, 26.5.1.2, A.26.1
Instructions                                                                      Definition, 3.3.146.2, A.3.3.146.2
    Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator communication                          Software and firmware, 23.2.2.1.1, A.23.2.2.1.1
                                                                              Fire alarm/mass notification, 24.5.10, A.24.5.10
                    systems, 24.10.10
                                                                              In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.2(3), 24.5.1.2(6),
Household signaling systems, 29.14, A.29.14.5(7)                                                  24.5.22, 24.5.25, A.24.5.1.2(6), A.24.5.22.1.3,
            Manufacturer's published, see Manufacturer's published                                A.24.5.22.3.1
                            instructions                                          Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Fig. 7.8.2(l), 14.2.7, Table
                                                                                                  14.4.3.2, 14.4.4.4, A.14.2.7.1
        Integrity, Table 14.4.3.2                                                 Public address system, 24.5.25
                                                                                  Wide area mass notification system, 24.6.11, 24.6.13.3
  Y Circuits, 12.6, Table 14.4.3.2, 24.5.25.2(3), A.12.6                      Interface equipment
  L Combination fire alarm systems, 23.8.4.4.1(1), 23.8.4.4.2,                    Auxiliary and public fire alarm systems, 27.6.3.2.2.2
                                                                                  Inspection, Table 14.3.1
                            23.8.4.5.1                                            Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, 14.4.4.4
                                                                              Internet protocol, A.26.6.3
  N DACT transmission means, 26.6.4.1.5(7)                                    Inverters, 27.5.2.5.1, 27.5.2.6, A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to A.27.5.2.5.1(3)
                                                                              In-writing (definition), 3.3.139, A.3.3.139
            Emergency voice/alarm communications systems, 10.19,              Ionization smoke detection, B.4.7.1, B.4.7.3, B.4.8.1.2
                                                                                  Definition, 3.3.276.2, A.3.3.276.2
    O 24.3.5.2(2), A.10.19.1, A.24.3.5.2
                                                                                                                         -L-
            Fire alarm system communications to other systems, 21.2.8,
                            21.2.11                                           Labeled (definition), 3.2.4
                                                                              Leg facility, 26.4.4.5.2
  E Household signaling systems, 29.10.6.7, 29.10.8.1.1, 29.11.2.3
  S Mass notification systems, Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2                       Definition, 3.3.148
                                                                              Level ceilings, 17.7.3.2.4.2, 17.7.3.7.5, A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3),
            Power supplies, 10.6.3.4, 10.6.9, A.10.6.9.2, A.10.6.9.3
                                                                                             A.17.7.3.2.4.2(4)
  U Protected premises fire alarm systems, 23.4, 23.8.5.11.4,                     Definition, 3.3.38.1
                            A.23.4.2.2                                        Life safety network, 21.2.11
  L Interconnection, 23.8.3.4                                                     Definition, 3.3.150
                 Low-power radio (wireless) systems, 23.16.4                  Line-type detectors, 17.6.3.1.3.2, Table 17.6.3.5.1, 17.6.3.5.2
  A Signaling paths, 23.4.3.2, 27.2.4                                             Definition, 3.3.70.11
                 Suppression systems, 23.8.5.7.2                              Listed
                                                                                  Definition, 3.2.5, A.3.2.5
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Tone-generating equipment, 10.19.1, A.10.19.1                 Detectors, 17.5.1, 17.6.1.4, 17.7.1.8, 17.7.1.9, A.17.7.1.8,
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Publicly accessible auxiliary boxes, 27.6.3.2.3.17(A)
  ID Remote alarm receiving equipment, 27.5.3.5                                                   A.17.7.1.9
            Supervising station fire alarm system transmission                         Carbon monoxide, 17.12.2, 17.12.6
    IV technology, 26.6.3.2, Table A.26.6.1                                       Equipment, 10.3.1, 10.3.3, 23.8.4.4.1(4), A.10.3.3
            Wireless reporting systems, 27.4.3.4, 27.5.5.3, A.27.5.5.3.3          Household signaling systems, 29.3.1, A.29.6.3
        Intelligibility, 18.4.1.6, 18.4.11, 21.2.11(1), 24.3.1, 24.4.2.2.1,       Mass notification system control units, 24.3.10, A.24.3.10
    D 24.6.5.1, A.18.4.1.6, A.18.4.11, A.24.3.1.1, A.24.3.1.2,                    Notification appliances, 18.3.1, 24.5.1.3, 24.5.9.2 to 24.5.9.4,
                        A.24.6.5.1(B), Annex D
  IN Definition, 3.3.144                                                                          A.24.5.9.2
        Intelligible (definition), 3.3.145, A.3.3.145
        Interconnections, see also Paths (pathways)
  R Household signaling systems, 29.8.2.1.1, 29.10.6.7, 29.10.7.6,
                            A.29.8.2.1.1
 OIn-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.1
            Metallic, 27.7, A.27.7.1.6.2, A.27.7.3

F Notification appliances, 18.1.7
Protected premises alarm systems, 23.8.3
                                                                              Speakers, 24.3.1.2, A.24.3.1.2
Record of completion, Fig. 7.8.2(e), Fig. A.7.8.2(1)(e)
                                                                              Supervising station alarm systems, Table A.26.1
Smoke detectors, 29.11.2, A.29.11.2.1
                                                                       Living areas, 29.8.1.1(5), 29.8.1.1(6), 29.8.1.2, A.29.1.2,
Status changes, display and recording of, 26.6.6.1, A.26.6.6.1                A.29.8.1.1(5)

Interface                                                                     Definition, 3.3.152

Circuit                                                                Loading capacities

Definition, 3.3.146.1                                                         Definition, 3.3.153

Emergency control function interface, see Emergency                           Digital alarm communicator receiver (DACR) hunt
               control function interfaces                                                   groups, 26.6.4.2.2(D), A.26.6.4.2.2(D)

Signaling line, Table 14.4.3.2                                                One-way private radio alarm systems, 26.6.5.2.6

                                                                                                                                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-400                                                NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Supervising station communication methods, Table A.26.6.1          Managed facilities-based voice network (MFVN), 26.6.4.1.1,
        System unit, 26.6.3.7                                                             26.6.4.1.5(3), A.26.6.4.1.1
        Two-way radio frequency (RF) multiplex systems, 26.6.5.1.5,
                                                                               Definition, 3.3.161, A.3.3.161
                       Table 26.6.5.1.5(B)                                 Manual alarm boxes, see Alarm boxes

Local energy type auxiliary fire alarm system, 27.6.3.2.2.1(1),            Manual controls, status indicators for, 10.16.1
              A.27.6.3.2.2.1(1)
                                                                           Manual operation, mass notification system, 21.6.2.1, 21.6.2.3,
        Definition, 3.3.221.1.1                                            21.6.2.4, 24.5.1.5, 24.5.2.7, 24.5.2.9, 24.5.9.4 to 24.5.9.6,
                                                                           24.5.12.8, 24.5.13.2, A.21.6.2.1.2, A.21.6.2.3.1 to
Local operating console (LOC), 24.5.1.2(2), 24.5.1.10, 24.5.2.5,           A.21.6.2.3.6, A.21.6.2.4
               24.5.11.3, 24.5.12, A.24.5.2.5, A.24.5.12.1
                                                                           Manufacturer's published instructions, 7.2.1(6), 7.5.3(1), 10.3.2,
        Definition, 3.3.155, A.3.3.155                                     14.4.5.1, 14.4.5.6, 14.4.5.8, 14.4.5.9, 14.4.6.6, 17.7.1.9,
                                                                           17.7.6.3.3.3, 17.11.5.1.1, 29.3.2, 29.9.2(2), 29.11.2.1(1),
    Mounting of controls, 24.5.14, A.24.5.14                               A.7.5.3(1), A.17.7.1.9
Locked doors, electrically, 21.10, A.21.10.1, A.21.10.3

 Lodging or rooming houses, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1; see also Household           Definition, 3.3.163, A.3.3.163
                 signaling systems                                         Markings

      Definition, 3.3.156                                                      Air sampling-type smoke detector piping, 17.7.3.6.2.5
                                                                               Carbon monoxide alarms and detectors, 29.14.2
Y Loop start telephone circuit, 26.6.4.1.1(B)                                  Elevators, fire service access, 21.5, A.21.5
 L Definition, 3.3.297.1                                                       Heat detectors, 17.6.2.2
                                                                               Household signaling systems, 29.14, A.29.14.5(7)
 Loss of power                                                                 Notification appliances, 18.3.3.2, 18.3.3.3, A.18.3.3.2
                                                                           Masked threshold, see Effective masked threshold
 N Definition, 3.3.157                                                     Mass notification priority mode, 10.7.3, 10.7.4, 24.5.1.7, A.10.7.3
                                                                               Definition, 3.3.164, A.3.3.164
      Trouble signals, 10.6.9.1.1, 10.15.2                                 Mass notification systems, see also In-building mass notification

O Loudspeakers, 18.8.1, 23.8.4.6, 24.4.2.2.1, 24.4.6, 24.4.8.5,                           systems
                 A.18.8.1.2, A.24.4.2.2.2, A.24.4.6.1, F.1; see also High      Control units, listing of, 24.3.10, A.24.3.10
                 power loudspeaker array (HPLA)                                Definition, A.3.3.165
 E Amplifiers, monitoring of, 10.19.1, A.10.19.1                               Distributed recipient mass notification system (DRMNS), 24.7,
 S In-building mass notification systems, 21.6.2.6.4, 24.5.4,
                      A.21.6.2.6.4, A.24.5.4.1                                                 A.24.7
 U Intelligibility requirements, 24.3.1.2, A.24.3.1.1, A.24.3.1.2                   Definition, 3.3.90.1.1
      Tone signals, transmission of, 23.10.4                                   Emergency response plan, 24.3.12.10, 24.3.13, A.24.3.13
                                                                               Inspection, Table 14.3.1
L Low-power radio transmitters/transceivers, Table 14.4.3.2, 23.16,            Performance-based design of, 24.12, A.24.12.6.3, A.24.12.6.6
                 29.9.3(5), 29.10.8, A.23.16, A.29.10.8.2.1, A.29.10.8.2.4,    Priority of signals, 10.7.3, 10.7.4, A.10.7.3
  A Fig. F.3.14(b)                                                             Record of inspection and testing, Fig. 7.8.2(j)
      Definition, 3.3.158                                                      Risk analysis for, see Risk analysis
                                                                               Speakers, use of, 24.4.6.2
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} -M-                                    Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
ID Maintenance, 10.3.2, 14.1, 14.2.2, 14.2.3, 14.5, A.14.2.2.1.2,              Wide area mass notification systems, see One-way emergency

                 A.14.2.3.1, A.14.2.3.6                                                        communications systems
      Carbon monoxide detection systems, 26.2.4.1.3, 26.2.4.2.2,           Master boxes, see Alarm boxes
                                                                           Master fire alarm control units, see Fire alarm control units
   IV A.26.2.4.1.3                                                         McCulloh systems

      Central station service alarm systems, 26.3.9.2, 26.3.10, Table          Inspection, Table 14.3.1
                      A.26.1                                                   Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.3.6
                                                                           Measurement, units of, 1.6, A.1.6.5
 D Definition, 3.3.159                                                     Mechanical energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.3
 IN Documentation and records, 7.2.1(16), 7.6, 14.2.5, 14.6.2,

                      A.14.6.2.4
      Emergency communications systems, 24.11.7
      Engine-driven generators, 10.6.11.4

 R Household signaling systems, 14.4.6.2, 29.6.3, 29.13, A.29.6.3

      In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.4, 24.5.6

 OPersonnel, 10.5.3, 14.2.3.6, A.10.5.3, A.14.2.3.6
FProprietary supervising station alarm systems, 26.4.1.2, 26.4.7.2,
                       26.4.8, Table A.26.1                              Mechanically powered, single-station heat alarms, 29.5.2, 29.8.2.1.1,
        Protected premises fire alarm systems, Table A.26.1                             A.29.8.2.1.1

        Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.2.1, 27.3,              Definition, 3.3.129.1
                       A.27.2.1, A.27.2.3                                Metallic conductors, testing of, Table 14.4.3.2

        Smoke alarms, 14.4.5, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4                     Metallic systems and interconnections, 27.7, A.27.7.1.6.2, A.27.7.3

        Supervising station alarm systems, 26.3.2(5), 26.3.3, 26.5.1.2,  Microwave radio systems, private, Table 14.4.3.2

                    26.5.2, 26.5.8.2, 26.5.9, 26.6.7, Table A.26.1,      Monitoring, Table A.26.1
                    A.26.5.2.2(1)                                            Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator communication
Malicious alarms, 10.22(1)                                                                   systems, 24.10.5, 24.10.6, A.24.10.5, A.24.10.6

        Definition, 3.3.314.1                                              Carbon monoxide detection systems, 10.6.7.2.4

                                                                           Central station service alarm systems, 26.3.3.2

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                              INDEX                                                                                 72-401

Circuits, 12.6, 24.5.4.1, 24.5.25.2(3), A.12.6, A.24.5.4.1                          911 public safety answering point, 26.3.6.6.1

Combination fire alarm systems, 23.8.4.10, A.23.8.4.10                              Noncontiguous property, 26.4.2.2

Control units, 23.8.2.7, 23.8.2.8, A.23.8.2.7.4                                     Definition, 3.3.213.2

Emergency command center, 24.11.1.2(6), 24.11.1.7                                   Nonrequired

Emergency voice/alarm communication systems, 24.3.5.2(2),                               Definition, 3.3.180, A.3.3.180
               24.4.1.1                                                                 Detectors, 17.5.3.3, A.17.5.3.3
                                                                                        Protected premises fire alarm systems and components, 23.3.2,
Fire extinguisher electronic monitoring devices, 3.3.113, 17.16,
               23.8.4.10, A.23.8.4.10                                                                   A.23.3.2
                                                                                    Nonrestorable initiating device (definition), 3.3.141.3
Fire pumps, 23.8.5.9.1, 23.8.5.9.2                                                  Normal condition, 10.3.4, 10.8.2.4, Table 14.3.1, 14.4.4.5.5,
Fire service access elevators, 21.5, A.21.5
Household signaling systems, 29.10.6.7, 29.10.8.1.1, 29.10.9.10.6,                                 26.2.4.1.4(3), 26.2.5.2, 27.6.5.1.2, 29.9.1, 29.9.3, 29.13.2,
                                                                                                   A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2), A.29.10.9.1
               29.12

            For integrity, see Integrity                                                Definition, 3.3.61.2
            Protected premises fire alarm systems, 27.2.4                           Notification appliance circuits, 10.4.5, 10.17, 23.4.2, 23.7, 23.8.6.4,
            Supervising station fire alarm system transmission
                                                                                                   A.10.4.5, A.10.17.2, A.23.4.2.2
    Y technology, Table A.26.6.1                                                        Definition, 3.3.183
  L Termination of, 10.21.3                                                             Pathway survivability, 24.3.14, A.24.3.14.3, A.24.3.14.9
                                                                                        Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3.2, F.2.5, F.2.6, F.2.9 to F.2.13
            Two-way telephone communications service, 24.8.3                        Notification appliances, Chap. 18, C.2.2.2.3, F.1; see also Exit

  N Waterflow alarm-initiating devices, 23.8.5.5.1                                                 marking audible notification appliances; Mass
                                                                                                   notification systems
            Wireless reporting systems, 27.5.5.3                                        Activation of, 23.3.3.1(6)
                                                                                             Positive alarm sequence, use of, 23.8.1.2.1.1,
 O Motor generators, 27.5.2.5.1(3), 27.5.2.5.3, 27.5.2.5.4, 27.5.2.6,
                        A.27.5.2.5.1(3); see also Engine-driven generators                                  A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6)
                                                                                             Turning off activated system, 29.10.6.6
 E Multi-criteria detectors, 17.9.1, 17.9.3                                             Audible signals, see Audible notification appliances
            Definition, 3.3.70.12, A.3.3.70.12                                          Carbon monoxide detection systems, 18.4.3
  S Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                             Connections, 18.3.6, A.18.3.6
        Multiple buildings, supervising station systems, 26.2.6                         Definition, 3.3.182
                                                                                        Documentation
 U Multiple dwelling unit (definition), 3.3.83.1; see also Apartment                         Design documentation, 7.3.4, A.7.3.4.1
                        buildings                                                            Minimum required, 7.2.1(10), 7.2.1(11)
                                                                                             Record of inspection and testing, Fig. 7.8.2(h)
 L Multiple emergency communications control units, 24.11.2.6                           In elevator cars, 23.8.6.2, A.23.8.6.2
                                                                                        In exit stair enclosures and exit passageways, 23.8.6.2, A.23.8.6.2
        Multiple-station alarm, 17.1.5, Chap. 29                                        Hearing loss, for persons with, 29.5.9, 29.5.10, A.29.5.8,

  A Carbon monoxide, 29.7, A.29.7                                                                       A.29.5.10.1 to A.29.5.10.2(1)
                                                                                        Household signaling systems, 29.5, 29.8, A.29.5.1 to
            Combination systems, 29.10.7.8, A.29.10.7.8
                                                                                                        A.29.5.10.2(1), A.29.8.1 to A.29.8.2.2
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Definition, 3.3.170                                                      Integrity, monitoring for, 29.10.6.7
  ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Fig. 7.8.2(m), Table         Optional functions, 29.12
                                                                                             Power supplies, 29.9.6
                            14.4.3.2, 14.4.5, 29.10.5, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4                Testing, 29.11.2.4
            Interconnection, 29.11.2.2, 29.11.2.3                                       In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.2(4)
                                                                                        Inspection, Table 14.3.1
  IV One- and two-family dwelling units, 29.8.1.1, A.29.8.1.1(1) to                     Interconnection of appliances, 18.1.7
                            A.29.8.1.1(5)                                               Mounting, 18.3.5
            Visual notification appliance with, 29.9.6                                  Nameplates, 18.3.2

  D Waterflow alarm connected to, 29.10.7.8.4

        Multiple-station alarm devices

  IN Definition, 3.3.171

            Listed, 29.3.1
        Multiplexing (definition), 3.3.172; see also Active multiplex systems;

   RTwo-way emergency communications systems

        Multi-sensor detectors, 17.7.6.1.1, 17.9.1, 17.9.4

 ODefinition, 3.3.70.13, A.3.3.70.13
F Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
Municipal fire alarm (street) boxes, see Alarm boxes                                Physical construction, 18.3.3, A.18.3.3.2

Municipal fire alarm systems, see Fire alarm systems; Public                        Power panel record of completion, Fig. 7.8.2(d)
               emergency alarm reporting systems                                    Protection, 18.3.4, A.18.3.4

                                          -N-                                       Requirements, 18.1, A.18.1
                                                                                    Secondary power supply, 10.6.7.2.1, A.10.6.7.2
Nameplates, fire alarm systems, 18.3.2                                              Supervisory, 10.15.10.4, F.2.11, F.2.12
Net-centric alerting system (NCAS), 24.7.4, A.24.7, A.24.7.6                        Supplementary visible signaling method, 18.7
                                                                                    Testing, 14.4.2.1, 14.4.2.2, Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3.2, F.2.9
    Definition, 3.3.176                                                             Textual appliances
Network architecture, 24.7.4
                                                                                        Audible, 18.8, A.18.8.1.2
    Definition, 3.3.178                                                                 Visual, 18.9, A.18.9
Networks, see Wired network; Wireless network

                                                                                                                                     2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-402                                        NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

    Trouble, 10.15.10, A.10.15.10.7                                           Public, 18.4.4, 18.5, 18.9.2.2, 23.8.5.4.5, 23.8.6.1.1, A.18.4.4,
    Visual signals, see Visual notification appliances                                        A.18.5
Notification before testing, 14.2.4, A.14.2.4
Notification zones, see Zones                                                      Definition, 3.3.193.2
Nuisance alarms, 10.22(2), 14.4.4.3.3.1, 14.4.4.3.3.2,                    Operating system software, 23.2.2, A.23.2.2.1.1 to A.23.2.2.2
                                                                          Operators, see Personnel
               23.8.5.4.1(1); see also Alarm verification features;       Other fire detectors, 17.11, A.17.11.2
               Unwanted alarms
    Definition, 3.3.314.2, A.3.3.314.2                                        Definition, 3.3.70.14
                                                                          Overcurrent protection, 10.6.5.2.4, 10.6.5.5, 10.6.10.4

                                       -O-                                Ownership
                                                                              Definition, 3.3.195, A.3.3.195
Occupant evacuation elevators, see Elevators
                                                                          Inspection, testing, and maintenance, responsibility for, 14.2.3.1
Occupant notification, 23.8.6.1; see also Emergency voice/alarm           to 14.2.3.4, A.14.2.3.1
                 communications; Evacuation; Mass notification systems;
                 Relocation; Voice/alarm signaling service                    Proprietary supervising station systems, protected
      Documentation, 7.2.1(10)                                                                property, 26.4.2.1, 26.4.2.2

Y Occupiable area (definition), 3.3.187                                       Remote supervising station alarm systems, 26.5.6.3.1 to 26.5.3.3,
L Occupiable (definition), 3.3.186, A.3.3.186                                                 A.26.5.3.1.4, A.26.5.3.2

 Octave band                                                              Owner's manuals, 7.5.3(1), 7.5.4, A.7.5.3(1)

 N Definition, 3.3.188, A.3.3.188                                                                                    -P-

      One-third octave band (definition), 3.3.188.1                       Paging systems, 24.4.8.5, 24.11.6, A.24.11.6
                                                                              Definition, 3.3.196
O Off-hook, Table 14.4.3.2, 24.8.7 to 24.8.10, 26.6.4.1.3, Table
                 A.26.6.1, A.26.6.4.1.3                                   Partial coverage, heat/smoke detectors, 17.5.3.2, A.17.5.3.2
      Definition, 3.3.189                                                 Paths (pathways), Chap. 12, 24.10.4, F.1; see also Interconnections;

E One- and two-family dwellings, 29.8.1, A.29.8.1, A.29.8.1.1; see also                  Signaling paths
  S Household signaling systems                                               Classification, 12.3, 23.4.3, A.12.3
                                                                              Class N, 23.6.3, 24.3.5.4, A.23.6.3.3 to A.23.6.3.8
 One-third octave band (definition), 3.3.188.1                                Combination systems (non-fire alarm equipment), 23.8.4.4.1,

U One-way emergency communications systems, see also In-building                              23.8.4.4.2
                 fire emergency voice/alarm communications systems            Definition, 3.3.197
                 (EVACS); In-building mass notification systems               Documentation, 7.2.1(12), A.7.2.1(12)
 L Classification as, 1.3.2(1), 24.3.7, A.24.3.7                              Shared pathway designations, 12.5, A.12.5
 A Definition, 3.3.90.1                                                   Pathway survivability, 12.4, 12.7, 24.3.14, A.12.4, A.12.7, A.24.3.14.3,
      Distributed recipient mass notification system (DRMNS), 24.7,
                                                                                         A.24.3.14.9
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.24.7.1                                                  Definition, 3.3.198
   8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Definition, 3.3.90.1.1                            Peaked ceiling types, see Sloping peaked-type ceiling
 ID Messages for, 24.3.6, A.24.3.6.1 to A.24.3.6.3                        Performance-based design
      Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.4.3.5(1)                   Documentation, 7.3.7, A.7.3.7
 IV Wide-area mass notification systems, 10.6.7.2.1.4, 10.6.7.2.1.6,          Fire detector spacing, Annex B
                      24.6, A.24.6                                            Initiating devices, 17.3, A.17.3
          Definition, 3.3.90.1.4                                              Mass notification systems, 24.12, A.24.12.6.3, A.24.12.6.6
 D External connections, 24.6.3, A.24.6.3                                     Supervising station alarm systems, 26.6.3, A.26.6.3
          Layers, 24.3.8, A.24.3.8                                            Visual notification appliances, 18.5.5.7, A.18.5.5.7
 IN Password protection, 24.6.2, A.24.6.2                                 Performance-based inspection and testing, 14.2.9, A.14.2.9
          Pathway survivability, 24.3.14.6                                Permanent records
          Risk analysis for, see Risk analysis                                System information, 14.6.1, A.14.6.1
                                                                              Visual record (recording), 27.5.2.2.2, 27.5.2.2.3, 27.5.2.2.5.1,
R One-way private radio alarm systems, 26.6.5.2, Table A.26.6.1,
                 A.26.6.5.2.2, Fig. F.3.14(d), Fig. F.3.14(e)                                 27.5.4.4.1 to 27.5.4.4.3
 OIndependent receivers, 26.6.5.2.1                                                Definition, 3.3.199
      Inspection and testing of, 14.4.10                                  Personnel, 10.5, A.10.5.3 to A.10.5.6.4.2(4); see also Certification of

FMaximum operating time, 26.6.5.2.2, A.26.6.5.2.2                                        personnel
      Supervision, 26.6.5.2.3

        System categories, 26.6.5.2.5                                     Central station, 26.3.3, 26.3.7, Table A.26.1

        Transmission channels, 26.6.4.1.4(A), 26.6.5.2.4                  Design professional (definition), 3.3.69, A.3.3.69

On-hook, Table A.26.6.1                                                   Emergency command center, 24.11.1.4, 24.11.1.5, A.24.11.1.4,

        Definition, 3.3.192                                               A.24.11.1.5

On-premises communication equipment, 26.6.3.12, A.26.6.3.12               Emergency response personnel, 24.12.6.5.2
Operating mode                                                            Inspection personnel, 10.5.3, 14.2.3.6, A.10.5.3, A.14.2.3.6

        Private, 18.4.4.3, 18.4.4.4, 18.4.5, 18.6, 18.9.2.1, 23.8.6.1.1,      Definition, 3.3.200.1
                       A.18.4.5.1, A.18.4.5.2, A.18.6                     One-way private radio alarm system, power failure

            Definition, 3.3.193.1                                                        in, 26.6.5.2.3(C)

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                        INDEX                                                                                           72-403

Plans examiners and inspectors, 10.5.4                                              Supervising station systems, 26.5.4.2

Proprietary supervising station, 26.4.1.2, 26.4.2.1, 26.4.5, Table                  Secondary (standby), see Secondary (standby) power supply
A.26.1
                                                                                    Smoke alarms, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)
Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 10.5.6, 27.3.7,
               A.10.5.6.4.2(2), A.10.5.6.4.2(4)                                         Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                                        Visual notification appliances, 29.9.6
Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.3, 26.5.5, 26.5.6.3.3.2,                 Pre-alarm condition, 10.8.2.1
               26.5.6.3.3.3, Table A.26.1                                               Definition, 3.3.61.1.2, A.3.3.61.1.2
                                                                                    Pre-alarm responses, 10.9.2
Service personnel, 10.5.3, 10.5.6.3, 14.2.3.6, A.10.5.3, A.14.2.3.6                     Definition, 3.3.250.2, A.3.3.250.2
    Definition, 3.3.200.2                                                           Pre-alarm signals, 10.7.6

Supervising station operators, 26.2.4.1.4, 26.2.5.2, 26.2.9, 26.3.7,                Definition, 3.3.263.7, A.3.3.263.7
               26.4.3.4.3, 26.4.4.2.1, 26.4.4.3, 26.4.4.5.1, 26.4.5,
26.4.6.1.3.2, 26.4.6.1.4, 26.4.6.1.6.1, 26.4.6.1.6.3,
                            26.4.6.1.6.4, 26.5.5, 26.5.7, 26.6.4.1.5(7),
                            26.6.5.1.6(B), 26.6.6.1, 26.6.6.5, A.26.2.5.2.2,            Distinctive signals, 10.10.1, 10.10.8
                            A.26.4.4.3, A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5), A.26.6.6.1, A.26.6.6.5       Response to, 10.9.2
            System designers, 7.2.2, 10.5.1, 10.5.6.1, 24.12.2, 24.12.6.3,          Prerecorded (digital) voice and tone fire alarm systems, 14.4.11,

    Y A.24.12.6.3                                                                                  23.10, 24.3.1.1, 24.5.1.7 to 24.5.1.9, 24.5.2.2, A.14.4.11,
  L Definition, 3.3.200.3                                                                          A.23.10.2, A.24.3.1.1, A.24.5.2.2
                                                                                        Localized messaging, 24.5.3.1, A.24.5.3.1
            System installers, 10.5.2, 10.5.6.2                                     Presignal feature, 23.8.1.1, A.23.8.1.1
                                                                                    Pressure supervisory signal-initiating devices, 17.17.2, 21.4.3,
  N Definition, 3.3.200.4                                                                          A.17.17.2.2.2, A.21.4.3
                                                                                    Pressure tanks supervisory signal-initiating devices, 17.17.2.2.1,
            System operators                                                                       17.17.3.2
                                                                                    Primary batteries (dry cell), 23.16.2, 29.9.1, A.23.16.2
  O Definition, 3.3.298                                                                 Definition, 3.3.207
                                                                                    Primary trunk facility (definition), 3.3.208
                 Supervising station, see Supervising station operators             Prime contractor, 26.3.4, A.26.3.4
                                                                                        Definition, 3.3.209
  E Testing personnel, 10.5.3, 14.2.3.6, 14.2.6.1, A.10.5.3, A.14.2.3.6             Private operating mode, see Operating mode
                 Definition, 3.3.200.5                                              Private radio systems, Table 14.4.3.2, 26.5.4.4(3); see also One-way
                                                                                                   private radio alarm systems
 S Photoelectric light obscuration smoke detection                                  Profound hearing loss, see Hearing loss
                        (definition), 3.3.276.3, A.3.3.276.3; see also Projected    Projected beam-type detectors
    U beam-type detectors                                                               Definition, 3.3.70.16
        Photoelectric light-scattering smoke detection                                  Spacing, 17.7.3.7, 17.7.6.3.3.3, A.17.7.3.7, B.4.9
                                                                                        Test methods, Table 14.4.3.2
    L (definition), 3.3.276.4, A.3.3.276.4; see also Spot-type                      Property
                                                                                        Contiguous property, 26.4.2.2
                        detectors                                                            Definition, 3.3.213.1
                                                                                        Noncontiguous, 26.4.2.2
 A Plans examiners and inspectors, 10.5.4                                                    Definition, 3.3.213.2
                                                                                    Proprietary supervising station
        Plant (definition), 3.3.203                                                     Definition, 3.3.290.2
                                                                                        Emergency lighting, 26.4.3.4
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Plenums, detectors in, 17.7.4.2, 17.7.4.4, 17.7.4.5, 17.7.6.3.4,    Equipment, 26.4.4, A.26.4.4.1.3, A.26.4.4.3
        8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.17.7.4.4                                                 Facilities, 26.4.3, A.26.4.3.1, A.26.4.3.6
 ID Pneumatic rate-of-rise tubing heat detectors, Table 14.4.3.2, Table                 Protected premises fire alarm systems, 23.12.1
                        17.6.3.5.1, 17.6.3.5.2                                          Testing and maintenance, 26.4.1.2
  IV Definition, 3.3.70.15
        Poles, leads down, 27.7.1.5
        Positive alarm sequence, 23.8.1.2, 24.4.3, A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6),
    D A.23.8.1.2.1.2
            Definition, 3.3.205
 IN Power supplies, 10.6, A.10.6.1 to A.10.6.10.3.4; see also Batteries;
                        Loss of power
            Central station alarm systems, 26.3.6.4
  R Common-current systems, grounded, 27.5.4.3
            Constant-current systems, 27.5.4.2
 OContinuity, 10.6.6, A.10.6.6

F Definition, 3.3.206
Emergency communications systems, 24.11.4                                           Proprietary supervising station alarm systems, 26.4, A.26.4.3.1 to

Engine-driven generators, see Engine-driven generators                              A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)

Household signaling systems, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)                                      Communications and transmission channels, 26.4.6.1.3,
Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                                           A.26.4.6.1.3.3
Low-power radio (wireless) systems, 23.16.2, A.23.16.2
Monitoring, 10.6.3.4, 10.6.9, A.10.6.9.2, A.10.6.9.3                                Definition, 3.3.291.2
Public emergency alarm reporting systems, see Public                                Disposition of signals, 26.4.6.1.6, A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)
                                                                                    Operations, 26.4.6, A.26.4.6.1.3.3, A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)
               emergency alarm reporting systems                                    Performance criteria, Table A.26.1

Record of completion, Fig. 7.8.2(c)                                                 Personnel, 26.4.1.2, 26.4.2.1, 26.4.5

Remotely located                                                                    Record keeping and reporting, 26.4.7

Control equipment, 10.6.8, A.10.6.8.1                                               Supervisory signals, 26.4.6.1.6.3, A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)

                                                                                                                                           2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-404                                             NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Testing and maintenance, 26.4.7.2, 26.4.8                         Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 1.3.1(4), Chap. 27; see
                                                                          also Alarm boxes
        Trouble signals, 26.4.6.1.6.4
                                                                          Alarm processing equipment, 27.5, A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to
Proprietary supervising station service, 26.4, A.26.4.3.1 to                             A.27.5.5.3.3
               A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)
                                                                          Auxiliary systems, 27.6.3, A.27.6.3.1.2 to A.27.6.3.2.2.1(2)(g)
        Definition, 3.3.292.2
                                                                          Cable plant, public, see Wired network, public fire alarm
Protected premises (definition), 3.3.217                                  reporting system

Protected premises (local) alarm and signaling systems, Chap. 23          Coded systems, see Coded

        Alarm signal verification, see Alarm verification features        Definition, 3.3.221

        Annunciation, signal, 23.8.1.2.1.1(1)                             Household signaling systems, 29.10.9, A.29.10.9.1 to A.29.10.9.7

        Building scale, C.2                                               Management/maintenance, 27.2.1, 27.3, A.27.2.1, A.27.2.3

        Combination systems, 23.3.3.1(13), 23.8.2.1 to 23.8.2.8, 23.8.4,  Metallic systems and interconnections, 27.7, A.27.7.1.6.2,
              A.23.8.2.7.4, A.23.8.4.1 to A.23.8.4.10
      Deactivation of alarms, 10.11.8                                                         A.27.7.3
      Dedicated function systems, 23.3.3.2, A.23.3.3.2                        Personnel qualifications, 10.5.6, 27.3.7, A.10.5.6.4.2(2),

 Y Definition, 3.3.111.4.2                                                                    A.10.5.6.4.2(4)
                                                                              Power supplies, 10.6, 27.5.2.5, 27.5.3.7, 27.5.5.2, 27.6.6.9 to
      Definition, 3.3.111.4, A.3.3.111.4
                                                                                              27.6.6.13, A.10.6.1 to A.10.6.10.3.4, A.27.5.2.5.1(1)
 L Dwelling unit fire and carbon monoxide warning equipment                                   to A.27.5.2.5.1(3)
                      interconnected, 23.8.3                                  Supervisory signals, 27.5.2.2.2
                                                                              System integrity, 27.5.2.3
 N Emergency control functions, see Emergency control functions               Telephone reporting systems
                                                                                   Series, 27.5.4.4
      Emergency voice/alarm communications, 23.9                                   Street boxes, 27.6.5.1
                                                                              Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, 14.4.9
 O End-to-end communication time, 26.6.3.8, A.12.3.3                          Transmission means, 27.4.2.1.1, 27.7.2; see also Alarm boxes
                                                                              Trouble signals, 27.5.2.2.2, 27.5.2.4
      Fire service response locations, C.2.1                                  Type A, 27.5.2.1, 27.5.4.1.6.1
                                                                                   Definition, 3.3.221.2
 E High-profile or other unusual characteristics, buildings                   Type B, 27.5.2.1, 27.5.4.1.1, 27.5.4.1.6.2, 27.5.5.1.2
                      with, Annex C                                                Definition, 3.3.221.3
                                                                              Wired network, see Wired network, public fire alarm reporting
 S In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.1                                            system
                                                                              Wireless network, see Wireless network
      Initiating device circuits, 23.5                                    Public fire service communications center, see Communications
                                                                                         center
 U Inputs, 23.8.5, A.23.8.5.1.2 to A.23.8.5.8                             Publicly accessible alarm boxes, see Alarm boxes
                                                                          Public operating mode, see Operating mode
      Installation and design, 23.4.1                                     Public safety agency (definition), 3.3.223
                                                                          Public safety radio enhancement system
 L Integrity, 23.4, A.23.4.2.2                                                Definition, 3.3.224
                                                                              Two-way system, 24.3.7.2(2), 24.9
      Low-power radio system requirements, 23.16, A.23.16                 Public safety radio system (definition), 3.3.225; see also Low-power
                                                                                         radio transmitters; Radio alarm system (RAS); Two-way
 A Nonrequired systems, 23.3.2, A.23.3.2                                                 emergency communications systems
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Notification appliance circuits, 23.7                 Public switched telephone network
                                                                              Definition, 3.3.297.2; see also Managed facilities-based voice
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} One-way private radio alarm systems, supervision                       network (MFVN)
                                                                              Loop start telephone circuit, 26.6.4.1.1(3)
   ID of, 26.6.5.2.3(B)                                                            Definition, 3.3.297.1
                                                                          Purpose of code, 1.2, A.1.2
      Performance, 23.4 to 23.7, A.23.4.2.2 to A.23.6.3.8, Table A.26.1
      Positive alarm sequence, 23.8.1.2, A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6),

   IV A.23.8.1.2.1.2

      Power supplies, 10.6, A.10.6.1 to A.10.6.10.3.4

 D Continuity of, 10.6.6.1

          Engine-driven generators, secondary power provided

    IN by, 10.6.11.3.1

      Presignal feature, 23.8.1.1, A.23.8.1.1
      Releasing system, 23.3.3.1(4)

          Definition, 3.3.111.4.3

 R Requirements, 23.3.1, 23.3.3, 23.8, A.23.3.1, A.23.3.3.1,
                      A.23.3.3.2, A.23.8.1.1 to A.23.8.6.3.3

 OSignaling line circuits, 23.6, 27.2.4, A.23.6.1 to A.23.6.3.8
FSupervising station, communications with, see Supervising

                      station alarm systems
      Suppression system signal initiation, 23.8.5.7, 23.8.5.8, 23.8.5.10,
                    A.23.8.5.8
    System performance and design guide, Annex C                                                                    -Q-
    Trouble notification appliances, 10.15.10.7, A.10.15.10.7
    Two-way radio frequency (RF) systems, supervision                     Qualified, 10.5, A.10.5.3 to A.10.5.6.4.2(4)
                                                                              Definition, 3.3.228, A.3.3.228
                    of, 26.6.5.1.6(A)                                         Inspection, testing, and maintenance personnel, see Service
Protected premises (local) control unit, see Fire alarm control units                         personnel
Public address systems, 24.5.24, 24.5.25, A.24.5.24.2; see also               Plans examiners and inspectors, 10.5.4
                                                                              Public emergency alarm reporting system personnel, 10.5.6,
               Loudspeakers                                                                   27.3.7, A.10.5.6.4.2(2), A.10.5.6.4.2(4)
    Definition, 3.3.220                                                       Service personnel, 10.5.3, 10.5.6.3, 14.2.3.6, A.10.5.3, A.14.2.3.6

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                               INDEX                                                                                           72-405

Supervising station operators, 10.5.5, 26.2.9, A.10.5.5.1(2)                                Receiver/control output signals, 23.16.5

System designer, 10.5.1, 10.5.6.1, 24.12.2                                                  Record drawings, 7.2.1(15), 7.5.3(2), 7.5.5, A.7.5.5.2, A.7.5.5.5

System installer, 10.5.2, 10.5.6.2                                                          Definition, 3.3.238

                         -R-                                                                Records, 7.2.1(16), 7.7, A.7.7.1.2 to A.7.7.3.2; see also
                                                                                            Documentation; Records of completion

Radiant energy­sensing fire detectors, 17.8, A.17.8.1 to A.17.8.5.4,                        Guard's tour, 23.13.3
               B.5                                                                          Household signaling systems, 29.11.6

Definition, 3.3.70.17                                                                       Impairments, 10.21.2

Design documentation, 7.3.5.3                                                               Of inspection, testing, and maintenance, 7.2.1(17), 7.6.6, 7.8.2,
Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                                                   Figs. 7.8.2(g) to (m), 29.11.6, A.7.8.2(1), A.7.8.2(2)

Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                                     Maintenance of, 7.2.1(16), 7.7, A.7.7.1.2 to A.7.7.3.2

Radio alarm repeater station receiver (RARSR), 26.6.5.2, 27.5.5.3.5,                        Nuisance alarms, 14.4.4.3.3.1
                        A.26.6.5.2.2
            Definition, 3.3.230                                                                 Permanent, 14.6.1, A.14.6.1
            Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                             Proprietary supervising stations, 26.4.4.2.2, 26.4.4.4, 26.4.4.5,

 Y Radio alarm supervising station receiver (RASSR), 26.6.5.2.1,                                                26.4.7, Table A.26.1
    L 26.6.5.2.2(5), 26.6.5.2.4, 26.6.5.2.5                                                     Protected premises fire alarm systems, Table A.26.1
                                                                                                Public emergency alarm reporting system circuits, 27.3.3, 27.3.5
            Definition, 3.3.231                                                                 Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.3, 26.5.7, 26.5.8,

  N Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                                                    Table A.26.1
                                                                                                Retention, 7.2.1(16), 7.7, A.7.7.1.2 to A.7.7.3.2
            Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                             Simulated operation note, 14.6.4
                                                                                                Supervising stations, 14.6.3, 26.6.6, A.26.6.6.1 to A.26.6.6.5
 O Radio alarm system (RAS), 26.6.2.3.3, 26.6.4.1.4; see also Digital
                        alarm radio system (DARS); One-way private radio                             Signals, 26.3.8.3.5.1, 26.3.9, Table A.26.1, Table A.26.6.1
                        alarm systems; Two-way emergency communications                         Telephone reporting system, 27.5.4.4.1 to 27.5.4.4.6
    E systems                                                                                   Test signals, 26.3.8.3.5.1
  S Definition, 3.3.232                                                                         Visual recording devices, see Visual recording devices
            In-building emergency radio communication systems, inspection                       Voice recordings, 27.5.4.4.5, 27.5.4.4.6
    U and testing of, 14.4.10                                                                   Wireless reporting system, 27.5.5.1.2.3, 27.5.5.1.3
            Low-power radio system requirements, see Low-power radio                        Records of completion, 7.2.1(13), 7.5.3(3), 7.5.6, 7.8.2, 14.2.5,
                            transmitters
  L Microwave radio systems, Table 14.4.3.2                                                                23.8.5.4.1(4), 29.11.6, A.7.5.6.1 to A.7.5.6.6.3,
  A Proprietary supervising station, use by, 26.4.6.1.6.2(1)                                               A.7.8.2(1), A.7.8.2(2), Table A.26.1, A.26.3.4.2(2)
            Remote supervising station system, 26.5.4.4(3)                                      Definition, 3.3.239
                                                                                            Rectifiers, 27.5.2.5.1 to 27.5.2.5.4, 27.5.2.6, A.27.5.2.5.1(1) to
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Two-way radio communications enhancement system, 24.9                                  A.27.5.2.5.1(3)
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Radio alarm transmitter (RAT), 26.6.2.3.3, 26.6.5.2.1, 26.6.5.2.2(5),Redundant communication paths, Table A.26.6.1
    ID 26.6.5.2.4, 26.6.5.2.5(3), 26.6.5.2.7                                                References, Chap. 2, Annex I
            Definition, 3.3.233                                                             Refuge, area of, emergency communications systems, 24.3.7.2(3),
  IV Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                                              24.3.14.9, 24.10, A.24.3.14.9, A.24.10
            Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                         Release devices and service, suppression system, see Extinguishing
        Radio channels (definition), 3.3.47.2, A.3.3.47.2; see also Radio                                  systems
    D frequency                                                                             Release service, door, see Door release service
        Radio frequency, 27.4.3.3, 27.4.3.4, A.27.4.3.3                                     Releasing fire alarm systems, see Protected premises (local) alarm
  IN Definition, 3.3.235, A.3.3.235                                                                        and signaling systems
        Raised floors, 17.7.3.2.2, 17.7.3.5, A.17.7.3.2.2                                   Releasing service fire alarm control units, see Fire alarm control
        RARSR, see Radio alarm repeater station receiver (RARSR)                                           units
 R RAS, see Radio alarm system (RAS)                                                        Relocation, 23.8.6.1.1, 23.10.2, A.23.10.2, C.2.2.1.3
        RASSR, see Radio alarm supervising station receiver (RASSR)                             Alarm audible signal pattern for, 18.4.2.1, A.18.4.2.1
 ORAT, see Radio alarm transmitter (RAT)                                                        Definition, 3.3.242

FRate compensation detectors, 17.6.2.1, 17.6.2.2.1.1, 17.6.2.3.1,
B.3.3.10                                                                                    In-building emergency voice/alarm communication

Definition, 3.3.70.18, A.3.3.70.18                                                          systems, 24.4.8, A.24.4.8

Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                                     Positive alarm sequence, use of, 23.8.1.2.1.1, A.23.8.1.2.1.1(6)

Rate-of-rise detectors                                                                      Remote alarm or supervisory indicators, smoke alarms, 17.4.6,
    Definition, 3.3.70.19, A.3.3.70.19                                                                     A.17.4.6.1
    Spacing, B.3.2.4.3, B.3.3.9
    Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                                 Remote annunciators, 29.4, 29.8.2.3
                                                                                                Inspection, Table 14.3.1
Rate-of-rise tubing heat detectors, pneumatic, 12.6.11, Table                                   Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
               17.6.3.5.1, 17.6.3.5.2
                                                                                            Remote communications stations, 24.10.2 to 24.10.4, 24.10.7 to
    Definition, 3.3.70.15                                                                                  24.10.9, A.24.10.2, A.24.10.7
Rate-of-temperature detectors, 29.10.4.1
                                                                                            Remote receiving equipment, 27.5.3, A.27.5.3

                                                                                                                                                       2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-406                                      NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

Remote supervising station alarm systems, 23.12.1, 26.5,                  Runner service, 26.3.2(6), Table A.26.1
               A.26.5.2.2(1) to A.26.5.3.2                                    Definition, 3.3.255

    Definition, 3.3.291.3

        Operations, 26.5.7                                                                    -S-

        Performance criteria, Table A.26.1                                Scope of code, 1.1

        Power supply, 10.6.8, A.10.6.8.1                                  Secondary power source, 23.6.3.6.2, A.21.3.2, A.21.10.3,
        Presignal feature, 23.8.1.1.2(2)                                                 A.23.6.3.6.2, A.23.8.5.4.6.3, A.23.10.2, A.24.5.24.2

Remote supervising stations, 29.10.9.10.6                                 Secondary (standby) power supply, 10.6.7, A.10.6.7.2 to A.10.6.7.3

        Definition, 3.3.290.3                                             Amplifiers, power load of, 10.19.1.2

Remote supervising station service, 26.5, A.26.5.2.2(1) to A.26.5.3.2     Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator communication
                                                                          systems, 24.10, A.24.10
        Definition, 3.3.292.3
                                                                              Continuity of power supply, 10.6.6, A.10.6.6
      Documentation, 7.5.10                                                   Control units, 23.8.2.6.1(2)
 Repeater station, Table 14.4.3.2, 29.10.8.1.1(4)                             Electrically locked doors, 21.10.3, A.21.10.3
                                                                              Engine driven generators, 10.6.11.3
      Definition, 3.3.246                                                     Failure of, 23.12.3
                                                                              Household signaling systems, 29.9.1, 29.9.3, 29.9.4(7), 29.9.9,
Y Reporting, see Records
                                                                                              29.10.9.10.4
 Reset, 10.3.4, 10.11.6, 23.8.2.9, 23.8.2.10, 23.8.3.3, 26.6.4.1.3(C),        Integrity, 10.6.9, A.10.6.9.2, A.10.6.9.3
                                                                              Supervising station alarm systems, 26.6.3.13, A.26.6.3.13.1
  L 29.10.6.4, A.10.11.6, A.26.6.4.1.3(C)                                     Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                                                                              Wide area mass notification system, 24.6.5.2, 24.6.10.1
      Definition, 3.3.247                                                 Secondary trunk facility (definition), 3.3.256
                                                                          Selective coverage, heat/smoke detectors, 17.5.3.2, A.17.5.3.2
N Residential board and care occupancies, 29.8.1.1(4), 29.8.1.1(6),       Selective talk mode (definition), 3.3.301.2
                 A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1; see also Household signaling       Self-rescue, 29.6.1.1, A.29.1.1
  O systems                                                               Sensitivity, 14.4.4.3, 17.7.2, A.14.4.4.3, A.17.7.2
      Definition, 3.3.248                                                 Separate sleeping area (definition), 3.3.258, A.3.3.258
                                                                          Service personnel, see Personnel
E Residential occupancies, A.29.8.1.1; see also Household signaling       Servicing, see Maintenance
                 systems                                                  Shall (definition), 3.2.6
 S Definition, 3.3.249                                                    Shapes of ceilings (definition), 3.3.260; see also Sloping ceilings;
 Responses
                                                                                         Sloping peaked-type ceiling; Sloping shed-type ceiling;
 U Alarm, 10.9.1                                                                         Smooth ceilings
          Definition, 3.3.250.1, A.3.3.250.1                              Shed ceiling types, see Sloping shed-type ceiling
                                                                          Shop drawings, 7.4, 7.5.5.1, A.7.4.1 to A.7.4.9; see also Record
 L Definition, 3.3.250, A.3.3.250                                                        drawings
                                                                              Definition, 3.3.261, A.3.3.261
      Pre-alarm, 10.9.2                                                   Should (definition), 3.2.7
                                                                          Shunt-type auxiliary fire alarm system, 27.6.3.2.2(2), 27.6.3.2.3.1
 A Definition, 3.3.250.2, A.3.3.250.2                                         Definition, 3.3.221.1.2
                                                                          Shutter release, see Door release service
      Supervisory, 10.9.3                                                 Signal (definition), 3.3.263, A.3.3.263; see also Alarm signals
                                                                          Signaling line circuit interface, see Interface
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Definition, 3.3.250.3, A.3.3.250.3Signaling line circuits, 7.3.7.5, 10.3.3, 10.12.5.2, Table 14.4.3.2,
 ID Trouble, 10.9.4                                                                      21.2.10(2), 23.4.2, 23.4.3.2, 23.8.2.6, 24.5.1.3, 27.2.4,
                                                                                         27.7.2, A.23.4.2.2, F.1, F.3.1
          Definition, 3.3.250.4, A.3.3.250.4                                  Combined coded signals, 10.14.4
 Response time index (RTI), 17.6.1.5, 17.6.2.2.2.3, 21.4.1, A.17.6.1.5,       Definition, 3.3.265

  IV A.21.4.1

      Definition, 3.3.251

D Restorable initiating device (definition), 3.3.141.4

 Restoration signals, 10.14.1, 10.15.1, 26.2.5, A.26.2.5.2.2

 IN Definition, 3.3.263.8

 Retransmission, see Transmission means
 Retroactivity of code, 1.4

R Return air system, 17.7.5.4.2.2, 17.7.5.5.8, A.17.7.5.4.2.2

 Risk analysis

 ODefinition, 3.3.253

      Documentation, 7.3.6, A.7.3.6

FEmergency command center, 24.11.1.1, 24.11.2.1, 24.11.3,
                      A.24.11.1.1, A.24.11.3
                                                                          Faults, 10.11.7
        Mass notification systems, 7.3.6.4, 24.3.12, 24.12.1, 24.12.6.4,
              A.24.3.12                                                   Performance/capabilities of, 23.6, A.23.6.1 to A.23.6.3.8

         In-building, 24.5.3.3, 24.5.4.2, 24.5.7, 24.5.10, A.24.5.7,      Signaling paths, 23.8.2.6.1, 23.8.2.7, 26.6.3.3 to 26.6.3.5, 27.2.4,
                         A.24.5.10, A.24.5.22.3.1                                        27.5.3.5, 27.5.3.6, 29.10.9.10.3, 29.10.9.10.5,
                                                                                         A.23.8.2.7.4, A.26.6.3.5
         Wide area, 24.6.5, 24.6.9, A.24.6.5, A.24.6.9
Rooming house, see Lodging or rooming houses                              Signaling systems, see Fire alarm systems; Protected premises (local)
Room temperature supervisory signal-initiating devices, 17.17.5                          alarm and signaling systems
Runner, 26.3.8.3.1(2), 26.3.8.3.2.1(2), 26.3.8.3.3(2), 26.4.5.3 to
                                                                          Signaling zones, see Zones

              26.4.5.5, 26.4.6.1.6.1(2), 26.4.6.1.6.2(2)

        Definition, 3.3.254

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                     INDEX                                                                     72-407

Signal priority, 10.7, 10.10.1, 24.4.7, 24.5.1.7, 24.5.2.8, 24.5.7,         Smoke control systems, 17.7.4.4.1, 17.7.5, 17.12.9.2, A.17.7.5; see also
24.5.13, 24.5.25.2(1), A.10.7.3, A.10.7.9, A.24.4.7.1,                                 Firefighter's Smoke Control Station (FCFS)
A.24.5.7, A.24.5.13.1, A.24.5.13.6(2)
                                                                            Smoke detectors, 10.4.5, 10.4.6, 14.4.5, 17.5, 17.7, A.10.4.5,
Carbon monoxide alarm signals, 26.2.4.1.1                                              A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4, A.17.5.2 to A.17.5.3.3, A.17.7.1.1
                                                                                       to A.17.7.7.4, F.1
Priority supervising station alarm systems, 26.4.4.3.2
                                                                             Air duct systems, 17.7.3.6.4.1, 17.7.4.4, 17.7.4.5, 17.7.5.2.1,
Signal transmission sequence, 26.6.4.1.5, A.26.6.4.1.5(4),                             17.7.5.3.1, 17.7.5.3.4, 17.7.5.4.2, 17.7.5.5, 21.7.4,
A.26.6.4.1.5(8)
                                                                                            23.8.5.4.6, A.17.7.4.4, A.17.7.5.2, A.17.7.5.4.2,
    Definition, 3.3.264                                                                     A.23.8.5.4.6.3
Single dwelling unit (definition), 3.3.83.2; see also One- and two-          Alarm verification features, see Alarm verification features

               family dwellings                                              Area, 17.7.5.4.1

Single-station alarm, 17.1.5, Chap. 29                                       Characteristics, B.4.7

Carbon monoxide, 29.7, A.29.7                                                    Cloud chamber smoke detection (definition), 3.3.276.1
                                                                                 Coverage, 17.5.3, A.17.5.3
            Combination systems, 29.10.7.8, A.29.10.7.8                          Definition, 3.3.70.20
            Definition, 3.3.269                                                  Design, 7.3.5.2, 17.7.1.1 to 17.7.1.3, 17.7.1.8, A.17.7.1.1 to
            Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Fig. 7.8.2(m), Table
                                                                                                 A.17.7.1.3, A.17.7.1.8
    Y 14.4.3.2, 14.4.5, 29.10.5, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4                          Door release service, 17.7.5.3.3, 17.7.5.6, A.17.7.5.6.5.1(C)
  L Mechanically powered heat alarms, 29.5.2, 29.8.2.1.1,                        Ducts, detectors in, see Ducts, detectors in
                                                                                 Elevators, 21.3, A.21.3
                            A.29.8.2.1.1                                         Heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC), 17.7.4,

  N Definition, 3.3.129.1                                                                        A.17.7.4.1, A.17.7.4.4
                                                                                 Inspection, Table 14.3.1
            One- and two-family dwelling units, 29.8.1.1, A.29.8.1.1(1) to       Installation, 17.4.3 to 17.4.7, 17.7.1.4 to 17.7.1.12, 17.7.3.6.3,

    O A.29.8.1.1(5)                                                                              17.7.5.5, 21.3.6, 21.3.9, 21.3.10, 29.3.3, 29.8.1,
                                                                                                 29.11.3, A.17.4.5 to A.17.4.7, A.17.7.1.8 to
            Visual notification appliance with, 29.9.6                                           A.17.7.1.12, A.17.7.3.6.3.1, A.17.7.3.6.3.3, A.17.7.5.2,
        Single-station alarm devices                                                             A.21.3.9, A.21.3.10, A.29.3.3, A.29.8.1
                                                                                 Integrity, monitoring for, 29.10.6.7
  E Definition, 3.3.270                                                          Location, 17.7.1.4, 17.7.1.6, 17.7.1.7, 17.7.1.9, 17.7.1.10, 17.7.3,
                                                                                                 17.7.4.3, 17.7.5.5, 17.7.6.3.1, 17.7.6.3.2, 21.3.5,
            Listed, 29.3.1                                                                       29.3.3, 29.11.3.1 to 29.11.3.4, A.17.7.1.9, A.17.7.3.1
                                                                                                 to A.17.7.3.7.8, A.17.7.5.2, A.21.3.5, A.29.3.3,
 S Site-specific software, see Software                                                          A.29.11.3.1 to A.29.11.3.4(12)
 U Sleeping areas/rooms, 29.8.1.1, 29.8.1.2, A.29.1.2, A.29.8.1.1(1) to          Performance of, 29.10.1, 29.10.2, 29.10.6 to 29.10.8, A.29.2,
                                                                                                 A.29.10.6.2 to A.29.10.8.2.4
                        A.29.8.1.1(5)                                            Protected premises alarm systems, 23.8.5.4, A.23.8.5.4.1,
            Audible appliances in, 18.4.6, A.18.4.6.1 to A.18.4.6.3(2)                           A.23.8.5.4.6.3
                                                                                 Response characteristics, B.4.2
  L One- and two-family dwelling units, 29.8.1.1, A.29.8.1.1(1) to               Response prediction methods, B.4.8
    A A.29.8.1.1(5)                                                              Self-diagnostic, 29.10.1
                                                                                 Sensitivity, 14.4.4.3, 17.7.2, A.14.4.4.3, A.17.7.2
            Visual notification appliances located in, 18.5.5.8, A.18.5.5.8.3    Smoke spread control, 17.7.4.4.1, 17.7.5, A.17.7.5
                                                                                 Spacing, see Spacing
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Voice/alarm communications systems, 24.4.4.2, 24.4.4.3,      Special considerations, 17.7.6, A.17.7.6.1.2 to A.17.7.6.3.3
         8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} A.24.4.4.2, A.24.4.4.3                             Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.2.3 to F.2.8
 ID Sloping ceilings, 29.11.3.1, 29.11.3.2, 29.11.4.2, A.29.11.3.1,              Video image smoke detection, see Video image smoke detection
                        A.29.11.3.2, A.29.11.4.2                                                 (VISD)
            Definition, 3.3.38.2                                             Smoke doors, 21.7.2, A.21.7.2
  IV Detector location, 17.6.3.4.2                                           Smooth ceilings
            Detector spacing, 17.6.3.4.1, 17.7.3.2.4.3 to 17.7.3.2.4.6,
    D 17.7.3.7.5, 29.8.1.3.2, A.17.6.3.4, A.17.7.3.2.4.3 to
                            A.17.7.3.2.4.5
 IN Sloping peaked-type ceiling, 17.6.3.4, 17.7.3.3, 29.11.3.1, 29.11.4.2,
                        A.17.6.3.4, A.17.7.3.3, A.29.11.3.1, A.29.11.4.2
            Definition, 3.3.38.3, A.3.3.38.3
        Sloping shed-type ceiling, 17.6.3.4, 17.7.3.4, A.17.6.3.4, A.17.7.3.4
  R Definition, 3.3.38.4, A.3.3.38.4
        Smoke alarms, 29.8, A.29.1.1, A.29.8.1 to A.29.8.2.2; see also
 O Multiple-station alarm; Single-station alarm

F Definition, 3.3.275
Inspection, 14.4.5.1 to 14.4.5.4, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4                     Definition, 3.3.40.3, A.3.3.40.3

Installation, 29.1.2, 29.3.3, 29.8.1, 29.11.3, A.29.1.2, A.29.3.3,           Detector spacing, 17.7.3.2.3, 29.11.4.1, A.17.7.3.2.3.1,
               A.29.8.1, A.29.11.3                                                          A.29.11.4.1

Interconnection of, 29.8.2.1.1, 29.11.2, A.29.8.2.1.1, A.29.11.2.1           Software

Maintenance, 14.4.5, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4                                  Building system information units, 23.8.4.2.2.4

One- and two-family dwelling units, 29.8.1, A.29.8.1                         Definition, 3.3.279

Performance of, 29.10.2, 29.10.6 to 29.10.8, A.29.10.2,                      Executive, 14.4.2.5
               A.29.10.6.2 to A.29.10.8.2.4                                      Definition, 3.3.279.1

Power supplies, household fire alarm systems, 29.9, A.29.9.4(3)              Protected premises fire alarm systems, 23.2.2, 23.11.5.3,
Testing, 14.4.5.1 to 14.4.5.4, 29.10.5, A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4                              A.23.2.2.1.1 to A.23.2.2.2

Wireless interconnections, 29.10.8.2.4, A.29.10.8.2.4

                                                                                                                                            2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-408                                   NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Site-specific, 7.2.1(14), 7.5.3(4), 7.5.7, 14.2.5.1, 14.2.5.2,     Alarm signal disposition, 26.2.1, A.26.2.1.2, A.26.2.1.3(3)
              14.6.1.2, A.14.6.1.2
                                                                           Carbon monoxide signal disposition, 26.2.4, A.26.2.4.1.3
        Definition, 3.3.279.2
                                                                           Change of service, 26.2.7, A.26.2.7
Solid joist construction (ceiling)
                                                                           Definition, 3.3.290
        Definition, 3.3.40.4
                                                                           Documentation, 7.5.8.3(3), 7.5.8.3(4)
        Detector location, 17.6.3.2.2
                                                                           End-to-end communication time, 26.6.3.8, A.12.3.3
        Detector spacing, 17.6.3.2.1, 17.7.3.2.4, 29.11.4.6, 29.11.4.7,
              A.17.7.3.2.4, A.29.11.4.7                                    Household signaling systems, 29.10.9, A.29.10.9.1 to A.29.10.9.7

Spacing, Annex B                                                           Impairments, 10.21.3

        Definition, 3.3.281                                                One-way private radio alarm systems, 26.6.5.2, A.26.6.5.2.2

        Ember/spark detectors, 17.8.3.3, A.17.8.3.3.1 to A.17.8.3.3.6      Power supplies

                                                                           Continuity of, 10.6.6.2
      Flame detectors, 17.8.3.2, A.17.8.3.2.1 to A.17.8.3.2.6
      Gas detectors, 17.11.5                                                        Engine-driven generators, secondary power provided
      Heat detectors, 17.6.3, A.17.6.3.1.1 to A.17.6.3.6, B.1.3.2, B.3.3                            by, 10.6.11.3.2

 Y Smoke detectors, 17.7.3, 17.7.4.3, 17.7.6.3.3, Table 17.7.6.3.3.2,          Recording and display of subsequent alarms, 26.6.3.10
                      23.8.5.4.4, A.17.7.3.1 to A.17.7.3.7.8, A.17.7.6.3.3,    Records, 14.6.3
   L B.4                                                                       Secondary power system, 10.6.7.2.1.3
      Visual notification appliances, 18.5.5.5, 18.5.5.6, A.18.5.5.5,          Signal processing equipment, 26.2.8
                                                                               Trouble signals transmitted to, 23.12.2, 23.12.3
   N A.18.5.5.6                                                                Two-way radio frequency multiplex systems, 26.6.5.1.2
                                                                           Supervising station alarm systems, 1.3.1(3), Chap. 26; see also
 Spark detectors, 17.8, A.17.8.1 to A.17.8.5.4
                                                                                          Remote supervising station alarm systems
 O Definition, 3.3.70.21                                                       Alarm signal content, 26.2.3
                                                                               Alarm signal verification, see Alarm verification features
      Spacing, 17.8.3.3, A.17.8.3.3.1 to A.17.8.3.3.6                          Central station service alarm systems, see Central station service

 E System design, B.5.3                                                                        alarm systems
                                                                               Communications with protected premises, 26.6, Table A.26.1,
 Spark detector sensitivity, B.5.3.3, B.5.3.4.1
                                                                                               A.26.6.1 to A.26.6.6.5, Table A.26.6.1
 S Definition, 3.3.284                                                         Digital communicator systems, see Digital alarm communicator

 Sparks, B.5.1.4.2, B.5.3.1.3                                                                  system (DACS)
                                                                               Display, 26.6.6, A.26.6.6.1 to A.26.6.6.5
 U Definition, 3.3.282, A.3.3.282                                              Inspection, testing, and maintenance, Table 14.3.1, Table

 Special hazard equipment, testing of, Table 14.4.3.2                                          14.4.3.2, 26.3.3, 26.5.1.2, 26.5.1.3, 26.5.2, 26.5.8.2,
                                                                                               26.5.9, 26.6.7, A.26.5.2.2(1)
L Spot-type detectors, 14.6.2.2, 17.7.3.2.4.2, A.17.7.3.2.4.2(3),              Performance criteria, 26.1, A.26.1
                 A.17.7.3.2.4.2(4)                                             Power failure signals, 10.6.9.3, A.10.6.9.3
 A Definition, 3.3.70.22                                                       Power supplies, 10.6, A.10.6.1 to A.10.6.10.3.4
      Heat-sensing, 14.4.4.5, A.21.4.2                                         Presignal feature, 23.8.1.1.2(2)
                                                                               Process monitoring, 23.3.3.1(11)
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Location, 17.6.3.1.3.1, A.17.6.3.1.3.1                     Proprietary, see Proprietary supervising station alarm systems
 ID 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Marking of, 17.6.2.2.1.1, 17.6.2.2.2.3                Public alarm reporting systems, see Public emergency alarm
                                                                                               reporting systems
          Operating temperature/RTI information, 17.6.1.5,                     Receivers, Table 14.3.1, Table 14.4.3.2
                          A.17.6.1.5                                           Recording, 26.6.6, A.26.6.6.1 to A.26.6.6.5
                                                                               Restoral signals, 10.14.1, 26.2.5, A.26.2.5.2.2
 IV Smoke, 17.7.3.2, 17.7.6.1, 17.7.6.3.3.2, A.17.7.3.2, A.17.7.6.1.2          Spare equipment, 26.6.3.6
                                                                               Transmitters, see Transmitters
      Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                  Trouble notification appliances, 10.15.10.7, A.10.15.10.7
 Sprinkler systems, see also Extinguishing systems; Waterflow alarms       Supervising station service, see Central station service; Proprietary

 D Dry pipe, 17.17.2.2.2, A.17.17.2.2.2
 IN Elevators, use in, 21.3.8, 21.3.14.1(3), 21.4.1 to 21.4.3, A.21.3.8,

                      A.21.4.1 to A.21.4.3
 Stair enclosures, notification appliances in, 23.8.6.2, A.23.8.6.2
 Stairway communication systems, 24.3.7.2(4), 24.10, A.24.10

R Stairways, door unlocking controls for, 24.11.1.2(6)

 Stakeholder (definition), 3.3.286

O Steam pressure supervisory signal-initiating devices, 17.17.2.2.3
FStorage batteries, see Batteries
Stratification, 17.7.1.11, 17.7.3.7.2, A.17.7.1.11, B.4.6                                 supervising station service; Remote supervising station
    Definition, 3.3.287                                                                   service
                                                                           Supervising system operators, 10.5.5, A.10.5.5.1(2)
Street boxes                                                               Supervisory condition, 10.8.2.2, 10.14.3.2, 10.15.10.4, 23.8.2.7,
    Alarm, see Alarm boxes                                                                A.23.8.2.7.4, A.24.7
    Telephone, Table 26.6.3.2.2.2, 27.6.5.1                                    Definition, 3.3.61.1.3, A.3.3.61.1.3
                                                                           Supervisory responses, 10.9.3
Subscriber (definition), 3.3.288                                               Definition, 3.3.250.3, A.3.3.250.3
Subsequent alarms, recording and display of, 26.6.3.10                     Supervisory service
Subsidiary station, 26.4.3.5                                                   Definition, 3.3.293
                                                                               Guard's tour, 23.3.3.1(10), 23.13, 23.14
    Definition, 3.3.289
Supervising station, 10.14.1(3), Table A.26.1

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                                     INDEX                                                                                   72-409

One-way private radio alarm systems, 26.6.5.2.3                                             Spare equipment, 26.6.3.6

Supervisory signal initiating devices, 17.17, 23.8.5.6, 23.8.5.8 to                                                    -T-
23.5.10, A.17.17.2.2.2, A.23.8.5.6, A.23.8.5.8, F.1, F.2.14

Definition, 3.3.141.5                                                                       Tactile notification appliance, 18.10, A.18.10.2

Extinguishing systems, see Extinguishing systems                                            Definition, 3.3.182.2

Inspection, Table 14.3.1                                                                    In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.19

Testing, F.2.1.1, F.2.2                                                                     Talk mode

Supervisory signals, 10.14; see also Alarm signals; Guard's tour                            Common talk mode, 24.8.6, 24.8.11, A.24.8.6
supervisory signal
                                                                                            Definition, 3.3.301.1
Annunciation, 10.18.2
                                                                                            Definition, 3.3.301
Central station response, 26.3.8.3.3, A.26.3.8.3.3
                                                                                            Selective talk mode (definition), 3.3.301.2
            Coded, 10.14.3, 10.14.4
            Combination systems, 23.8.4.10, A.23.8.4.10                                     Telephones, see also Digital alarm communicator receiver (DACR)
            Control units, interconnected, 23.8.2.7.2                                           Call forwarding equipment, 26.6.4.1.5(8), A.26.6.4.1.5(8)
                                                                                                Digital alarm communicator systems, use of, 26.6.4.1.4(A),
  Y Deactivation, 10.14.6, 10.14.7                                                                              26.6.4.1.5, 26.6.4.2.2, Table A.26.6.1, A.26.6.4.1.5(4),
                                                                                                                A.26.6.4.1.5(8), A.26.6.4.2.2(A), A.26.6.4.2.2(D)
            Definition, 3.3.263.9, A.3.3.263.9                                                  Distributed recipient mass notification system
                                                                                                                (DRMNS), A.24.7.5
  L Distinctive signals, 10.10.1, 10.10.5, A.10.10.5                                            Emergency command center, 24.11.1.2(6), 24.11.1.6
                                                                                                One-way (outgoing only), 26.5.4.4(2)
            Ducts, detectors in, 21.7.4                                                         Proprietary supervising station, 26.4.6.1.6.2(1)
                                                                                                Remote supervising station, 26.5.4.4
  N Elevator recall operation initiation, 21.3.13                                               Series reporting systems, 27.5.4.4
                                                                                                Switched telephone network, 26.5.4.4(1); see also Public switched
            Elevator shutdown, control circuits for, 21.4.5                                                     telephone network
                                                                                                Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
  O Household signaling systems, 29.10.9.1.3, 29.10.9.6                                         Textual appliances, 18.8.2
                                                                                                Two-way telephone communications service, 10.19.2, 24.8,
            Identification of, 26.6.6.2, A.26.6.6.2(4)                                                          A.24.8

  E Initiation, 23.8.5.8 to 23.5.10, A.23.8.5.8                                             Telephone street boxes, Table 26.6.3.2.2.2, 27.6.5.1
                                                                                            Terrorism, A.24.7
            Inspections, Table 14.3.1                                                       Testing, 10.3.2, Chap. 14, Table A.26.1

  S Latching indication, 10.14.2                                                                Automated, 14.2.8
  U Low-power radio (wireless) systems, A.23.16.3.1.5                                           Central station service, 26.3.8.3.5.1, 26.3.9.2, 26.3.10
                                                                                                Circuits, see Circuits
            Power supervisory devices, operation of, 10.6.9.4                                   Documentation and records, 7.2.1(17), 7.6, 7.8.2, 14.2.5, 14.6.2,

  L Priority of, 10.7.7, 26.2.4.1.1                                                                             A.7.8.2(1), A.7.8.2(2), A.14.6.2.4
                                                                                                Emergency communications systems, 24.3.5.3, 24.3.6.5, 24.11.7
            Proprietary supervising station systems, 26.4.4.2.1.2, 26.4.4.2.1.3,                Engine-driven generators, 10.6.11.4
                                                                                                Extinguishing system release, see Extinguishing systems
    A 26.4.4.2.2.3, 26.4.6.1.6.3, A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)                                             Frequency, 14.4.4
                                                                                                Heat alarms, 29.10.5
            Protected premises alarm systems, 23.8.3.2                                          Household carbon monoxide detection systems, 14.4.8,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.5.2.2.2                                        29.10.6.11, A.14.4.8.1.3
    8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.4, 26.5.3.1, 26.5.4.1.2,    Household signaling systems, 14.4.6, 29.6.3, 29.10.5, 29.10.9.8,
    ID 26.5.6.3.2, 26.5.7, A.26.5.3.1.4, A.26.5.3.2
            Response to, 10.9.3                                                                                 A.14.4.6.3, A.29.6.3
            Secondary power, operation on, 10.6.7.1.1, 26.6.3.13,                               In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.1.4, 24.5.6
    IV A.26.6.3.13.1                                                                            Methods, 14.4.3, Table 14.4.3.2, A.14.4.3, A.14.4.3.2
            Supervising station alarm systems, 26.6.1.2, 26.6.3.11                              Personnel, see Personnel
  D Suppression system actuation, 23.11.5.1                                                     Plan, 14.2.10, A.14.2.10
            Wireless, 27.5.5.1.3                                                                Proprietary supervising station alarm systems, 26.4.1.2, 26.4.7.2,
 IN Supplementary (definition), 3.3.296
        Supply air system, 17.7.5.4.2.1                                                                         26.4.8
        Suppressed (exception reporting) signal system, 6.6.4.2.2(E), 23.14
 R Suppression systems, see Extinguishing systems
        Survivability, 23.10.3, 24.5.4.2, C.2.2.1.4
 OSuspended ceilings, 17.7.3.5
        Switched telephone network, 26.5.4.4(1); see also Public switched

F telephone network
        System designer, see Personnel
        System installer, see Personnel
        System interfaces, see Interface equipment

System operators                                                                            Protected premises alarm systems, 23.2.2.3

Definition, 3.3.298                                                                         Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.3.3, 27.3.6,

Supervising station, see Personnel, Supervising station operators                                      27.5.5.1.1.5, 27.5.5.1.1.7, 27.5.5.1.3, 27.5.5.3.3,

System riser diagrams, 7.2.1(2), 7.4.6                                                                 27.5.5.3.4, 27.6.3.2.3.17(B), A.27.5.5.3.3

System unit, 26.6.5.1.1(3)                                                                  Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.2, 26.5.1.3, 26.5.2,
    Definition, 3.3.299                                                                                    26.5.8.2, 26.5.9, A.26.5.2.2(1)

Loading capacity, 26.6.3.7

                                                                                                                                                   2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-410                                              NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Smoke alarms/detectors, 14.4.5.1 to 14.4.5.4, 29.10.5, 29.13,               Unique identifier, 26.6.3.9, Table A.26.6.1
              A.14.4.5.3, A.14.4.5.4
                                                                           Transponders (definition), 3.3.307
        Supervising station fire alarm systems, 26.2.7.2, 26.2.7.3,
                       26.3.2(5), 26.6.7, Table A.26.6.1                   Trouble condition, 10.8.2.3, 23.8.2.7, A.23.8.2.7.4, A.24.7
                                                                               Definition, 3.3.61.1.4, A.3.3.61.1.4
        System acceptance, 14.4.1                                              Supervising station, transmission to, 26.6.6.1, 29.10.9.10.4,
            Reacceptance testing, 14.4.2, A.14.4.2                                             A.26.6.6.1

        Voice systems, intelligibility of, Annex D                         Trouble responses, 10.9.4

Testing personnel, see Personnel                                           Definition, 3.3.250.4, A.3.3.250.4

Test signals, 26.3.8.3.5, 26.6.4.1.4(B), 26.6.4.1.5(6), 26.6.4.2.2(G),     Trouble signals, 10.15, 10.19.1, 21.2.11(3), A.10.15.9, A.10.15.10.7,
              26.6.5.2.7(C), 26.6.6.4.2.2(H), 27.5.2.2.2, 27.5.5.1.1.7,
              27.5.5.1.3, A.26.3.8.3.5.3                                            A.10.19.1

                                                                           Annunciation, 10.18.2
 Textual audible notification appliances, see Audible notification
                 appliances                                                         Auxiliary systems, public fire alarm reporting
                                                                                                   systems, 27.6.3.2.2.1(1)(c)
 Textual visual notification appliances, see Visual notification
                 appliances                                                         Carbon monoxide, 26.2.4.2
                                                                                    Central station response, 26.3.8.3.4, A.26.3.8.3.4(1)
Y Thermal energy storage systems (definition), 3.3.99.3                             Combination systems, 23.8.4.7(3)
                                                                                    Control circuits, 10.17.3
 Throughput probability, Table A.26.6.1                                             Control units, interconnected, 23.8.2.7.3, 29.10.6.7
                                                                                    Deactivation of, 10.15.9, 10.15.10, A.10.15.9, A.10.15.10.7
L Time Constant and Response Time Index (RTI), B.3.2.5                              Definition, 3.3.263.10, A.3.3.263.10
N Tone generator, see Fire alarm/evacuation signal tone generator                   Digital alarm communicator systems, 26.6.4.1.4(B),

 Total coverage, detectors, 17.5.3.1, A.17.5.3.1                                                   26.6.4.2.2(H), A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6)
                                                                                    Distinctive signals, 10.10.1, 10.10.6
O Transient suppressors, Table 14.3.1                                               Energy storage systems (ESS), failure of, 10.6.4.4
                                                                                    Household signaling systems, 29.9.5, 29.9.7, 29.10.1, 29.10.6.5,
 Transmission channels, 26.6.1.1(2), A.26.6.1
      Definition, 3.3.47.3                                                                         29.10.7.6, 29.10.9.1.3, 29.10.9.6
                                                                                    Initiation, 23.8.5.11
 E Digital alarm communicator receiver (DACR), 26.6.4.2.2,                          Inspection, Table 14.3.1
   S A.26.6.4.2.2(A), A.26.6.4.2.2(D)                                               Integral, initiating devices with, 23.8.5.3.1
                                                                                    Loss of power, 10.6.9.1.1, 10.15.2
      Digital alarm communicator transmitter (DACT), 26.6.4.1.4,                    Low-power radio (wireless) systems, 23.16.4.5 to 23.16.4.7,

   U A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6)                                                                            A.23.16.3.1.5
                                                                                    Priority of, 26.2.4.1.1
      One-way private radio alarm systems, 26.6.5.2.4                               Proprietary supervising station, 26.4.4.2.1.2 to 26.4.4.2.1.4,
      Proprietary supervising station fire alarm systems, 26.4.6.1.3,
                                                                                                   26.4.4.2.2.3, 26.4.4.5, 26.4.6.1.6.4
   L A.26.4.6.1.3.3                                                                 Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.5.2.2.2, 27.5.2.4
 A Two-way radio frequency (RF) multiplex systems, 26.6.5.1.3                       Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.4, 26.5.3.1.1 to

 Transmission means, 26.2.1, A.26.2.1.2, A.26.2.1.3(3); see also Active                            26.5.3.1.4, 26.5.3.2, 26.5.4.1.2, 26.5.4.1.3, 26.5.6.3.3,
                                                                                                   26.5.7, A.26.5.3.1.4, A.26.5.3.2
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U multiplex systems                                               Response to, 10.9.4
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Central station alarm systems, 26.3.2(3), 26.3.3.2, 26.3.6.5,Secondary power, operation on, 10.6.7.1.1, 26.6.3.13,
   ID 26.3.6.6, 26.3.8.3.1(1), Table A.26.1, A.26.3.6.6,                                           A.26.6.3.13.1
                      A.26.3.8.3.1(1)                                               Signaling line circuits and pathways, 12.3.1 to 12.3.3, 12.3.6,
      Digital alarm communicator transmitter (DACT), 26.6.4.1.4,                                   12.3.7, 12.6.7, 12.6.15, 23.4.2.1, A.12.3.1, A.12.3.3,
   IV 26.6.4.1.5, A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6), A.26.6.4.1.5(4),                                             A.12.3.6(1) to A.12.3.6(5)
                      A.26.6.4.1.5(8)                                               Supervising station, transmission to, 23.12.2, 23.12.3, 26.6.1.2,
      Emergency communications systems, 24.11.5                                                    26.6.3.11, 26.6.6.2, A.26.6.6.2(4)
 D Household signaling systems, 29.10.9.1.1 to 29.10.9.1.3,                         Supervisory signal deactivation, signal for, 10.14.7.5
                      29.10.9.8, 29.10.9.10                                         Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.2.1 to F.2.3
 IN Proprietary supervising station, 26.4.6.1, Table A.26.1,
                      A.26.4.6.1.3.3, A.26.4.6.1.6.3(5)
      Public emergency alarm reporting system, Table 14.4.3.2,
   R27.5.5.4
      Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.3, 26.5.1.6, 26.5.4.3,
 O 26.5.4.4, 26.5.6.3.1(1), Table A.26.1
      Supervising station alarms systems, 26.6, Table A.26.6.1, A.26.6.1

F to A.26.6.6.5
        Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, 14.5.5, 14.5.6, 29.10.9.8                          Wireless, 27.5.5.1.3

        Wired network, 27.4.2.1.1                                                   Wireless box systems, 27.5.5.3.6, 27.5.5.3.7

Transmitters, 10.4.5, 26.6.1.1, A.10.4.5; see also Digital alarm               Wireless network boxes, 27.6.3.2.3.17(B), 27.6.6.11.4.2
               communicator transmitter (DACT); Digital alarm radio        Trunk facility, primary (definition), 3.3.208
               transmitter (DART); Radio alarm transmitter (RAT)           Two-way emergency communications systems, 1.3.2(2), 23.9.4

    Auxiliary, 27.6.3.2.3.1 to 27.6.3.2.3.3, 27.6.3.2.3.6, 27.6.3.2.3.12,      Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator emergency
                    27.6.3.2.3.16                                                              communications systems, 24.10, A.24.10

    Definition, 3.3.306                                                        Classification as, 24.3.7, A.24.3.7
    Low-power radio, 23.16.2 to 23.16.4, A.23.16.2 to A.23.16.3.1.5            Coded retransmission, confirmation of, 26.4.6.1.3.3,
    McCulloh systems, Table 14.3.1
    Testing, Table 14.4.3.2                                                                    A.26.4.6.1.3.3
                                                                               Definition, 3.3.90.2

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                               INDEX                                                                       72-411

In-building                                                              Distributed recipient mass notification systems, A.24.7.5

Area of refuge (area of rescue assistance) emergency                     Documentation, 7.2.1(11)
               communications systems, Table 14.3.1                      Elevator cars, 23.8.6.2.2
                                                                         Emergency voice/alarm communications, 24.4.8.6, A.24.4.8.6.1,
Elevator emergency communications systems, 24.10, A.24.10
Wired systems, 24.3.7.2(1), 24.3.14.7, 24.3.14.8, 24.8, A.24.8                          A.24.4.8.6.3, G.2.2.1(5)

Public emergency alarm reporting systems, 27.4.3.5                       Exit stair enclosures and exit passageways, 23.8.6.2.1

Radio communications enhancement system, 24.3.7.2(2), 24.9               Graphical, 18.9, 24.5.18, A.18.9, A.24.5.18

Radio frequency (RF) multiplex systems, 26.6.4.1.4, 26.6.5.1,            Household signaling systems, 29.5.8, 29.5.10.2, A.29.5.8,
             Table A.26.6.1, A.26.6.4.1.4(B)(6), A.26.6.5.1.4, Fig.      A.29.5.10.2
             F.3.14(c)
                                                                         Alarm silence indication, 29.10.6.5(2), 29.10.6.6(2)
Classifications, adverse conditions, 26.6.5.1.4, A.26.6.5.1.4
                                                                         Power supplies, 29.9.6
Loading capacities, 26.6.5.1.5, Table 26.6.5.1.5(B)
                                                                         Trouble signals, 29.9.5(1)
                 Testing, Table 14.4.3.2
                 Transmission channel, 26.6.5.1.3                            In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.16 to 24.5.18, 24.5.20,
            Stairway communication systems, 24.10, A.24.10                                   A.24.5.18, A.24.5.20

  Y Telephone communications service, 10.19.2                                Inspections, Table 14.3.1
 L Two-way radio communications enhancement system, 14.4.10, 24.9            Light, color, and pulse characteristics, 18.5.3, A.18.5.3.3 to

        Type A public emergency alarm reporting system, see Public                           A.18.5.3.7
                                                                             Location, 18.5.5, 18.5.6, 18.9.2, A.18.5.5.1 to A.18.5.5.8.3
    N emergency alarm reporting systems                                      Mass notification systems, 24.5.2.10, 24.5.25.2(4), A.24.5.2.10
                                                                             Mounting
        Type B public emergency alarm reporting system, see Public
                                                                                  Ceiling-mounted, 18.5.5.3, 18.5.5.4, Table 18.5.5.5.1(b),
    O emergency alarm reporting systems                                                           18.5.5.5.6 to 18.5.5.5.8, A.18.5.5.4, A.18.5.5.5.6

                                                   -U-                            Desktop and surface-mounted, 18.9.2.3
                                                                                  Wall-mounted appliances, 18.5.5.1, 18.5.5.2, Table
 E Underground cables, 27.7.1.2.2, 27.7.1.3
 S Unintentional alarms, 10.22(3)                                                                 18.5.5.5.1(a), 18.5.5.5.3, 18.5.5.5.4, A.18.5.5.1
                                                                             Nameplates, 18.3.2.1, 18.3.2.3
            Definition, 3.3.314.3                                            Occupant evacuation elevators, 21.6.2.6.5
                                                                             Performance-based alternative, 18.5.5.7, A.18.5.5.7
 U Unique transmitter identifier, 26.6.3.9, Table A.26.6.1                   Private mode, 18.6, 18.9.2.1, A.18.6
                                                                             Public mode, 18.4.4.2, 18.5.A.18.5, 18.9.2.2
        Units of measurement, 1.6, A.1.6.5                                   Remote supervising station systems, 26.5.1.4, 26.5.1.5, 26.5.4.1
                                                                             Spacing, 18.5.5.5, 18.5.5.6, A.18.5.5.5, A.18.5.5.6
 L Unknown alarms, 10.22(4)                                                  Supervisory signals, 10.14.1, 10.14.2.1, 10.14.6.1, 10.14.6.2
            Definition, 3.3.314.4                                            Supplementary visual signaling method, 18.7
                                                                             Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.2.11, F.2.12
 A Unwanted alarms, 10.22, A.10.22, A.29.1.1, A.29.10.6.2, B.3.2.4.2; see    Textual appliances, 10.6.7.2.1.5, 18.9, 24.11.6, A.18.9, A.24.11.6
                        also Nuisance alarms
                                                                                  Definition, 3.3.182.3.1, A.3.3.182.3.1
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U Definition, 3.3.314, A.3.3.314                                In-building mass notification systems, 24.5.18, A.24.5.18
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Uplink (definition), 3.3.315                               Wide area mass notification system, 24.6.10
        ID -V-                                                               Trouble signals, 10.15.7 to 10.15.9, Table 14.4.3.2, A.10.15.9
 IV Valves, supervision of, 17.17.1, F.2.15                                  Wide-area signaling, 18.5.6
        Video alerting, 24.5.20, A.24.5.20                                   Zone indication
        Video image flame detection (VIFD), Table 14.3.1, 17.8.5,                 Alarm, 10.18.1
    D A.17.8.5.3, A.17.8.5.4                                                      Supervisory and trouble, 10.18.2
            Definition, 3.3.316, A.3.3.316                               Visual recording devices, 27.5.2.2, 27.5.4.4.3
 IN Video image smoke detection (VISD), Table 14.3.1, 17.7.7,                Permanent record (recording), 27.5.2.2.2, 27.5.2.2.3, 27.5.2.2.5,
                        A.17.7.7.3, A.17.7.7.4
            Definition, 3.3.276.5, A.3.3.276.5                                               27.5.4.4.1 to 27.5.4.4.3, 27.5.5.1.3
 R Visible zone indication                                                        Definition, 3.3.199
            Alarm, 10.18.1
 OSupervisory and trouble annunciation, 10.18.2

FVisual notification appliances, 18.4.1.1, A.18.4.1.1
Alarm receiving equipment, public fire service communications            Voice/alarm signaling service, 18.4.1.6, 24.4.4, 29.5.6, A.18.4.1.6,
               equipment, 27.5.2.2.5, 27.5.2.4.2, 27.5.2.4.4,                           A.24.3.5.2, A.24.4.4.2, A.24.4.4.3, A.29.5.6; see also In-
               27.5.2.5.7, 27.5.4.2.3, 27.5.4.3.2, 27.5.5.3.7                           building fire emergency voice/alarm communications
                                                                                        systems (EVACS)
Alarm signal deactivation (silencing), 10.11.8.1, 10.11.8.2,
             10.12.2, 24.5.13.5, 24.5.25.1, 29.10.6.5(2),
             29.10.6.6(2), A.10.12.2                                     Voice communications systems, see Emergency voice/alarm
                                                                                        communications; In-building fire emergency voice/
Appliance photometrics, 18.5.4, A.18.5.4                                 alarm communications systems; Voice/alarm signaling

Area of coverage, 18.5.2, A.18.5.2.2                                     service

Area of refuge, stairway, and elevator communication                  Voice intelligibility, see Intelligibility
               systems, 24.10.9                                       Voice message priority, 24.4.7, 24.5.1.7, 24.5.2.8, 24.5.13, A.24.4.7.1,

Definition, 3.3.182.3                                                    A.24.5.13.1, A.24.5.13.6(2)

                                                                                                                                    2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

72-412                                         NATIONAL FIRE ALARM AND SIGNALING CODE

        Definition, 3.3.319                                               Wireless mesh networks (WMN), 26.6.5.2.8

Voice recordings, 27.5.4.4.5, 27.5.4.4.6                                  Definition, 3.3.325, A.3.3.325

                                  -W-                                     Wireless network, 27.4.1.1, 27.4.3, A.27.4.3.3

                                                                          Alarm processing equipment, 27.5.5, A.27.5.5.1.1 to A.27.5.5.3.3

Warning messages, G.2.2                                                   Alarm receiving equipment, public fire service communications
Waterflow alarms, 17.13, A.17.13.1, A.17.13.2                                            center, 27.5.5, A.27.5.5.1.1 to A.27.5.5.3.3

        Auxiliary fire alarm systems, application of, Table 27.6.3.2.2.3  Definition, 3.3.177.2

        Combination systems, 29.10.7.8.4                                  Publicly accessible alarm boxes, 27.6.6, A.27.6.6.2, A.27.6.6.7

        Elevator shutdown, 21.3.3.2, 21.4.3, 21.8, A.21.4.3               Auxiliary systems, public fire alarm reporting systems, Table
                                                                          27.6.3.2.2.2
        Inspection, Table 14.3.1
                                                                          Receiving networks, 27.5.5.1.1.1 to 27.5.5.1.1.5
        Manual fire box, available, 23.8.5.1.2, A.23.8.5.1.2
                                                                          Wireless protection system (definition), 3.3.326
      Signal initiation, 23.8.5.5, 26.2.1.1, A.23.8.5.5                   Wireless repeater, A.27.5.5.1.4
      Testing, Table 14.4.3.2, F.2.15
 Water level supervisory signal-initiating devices, 17.17.3                   Definition, 3.3.327
                                                                          Wireless signals, mass notification system, Table 14.4.3.2
Y Water temperature supervision, 17.17.4                                  Wiring, see also Circuits

 WATS (Wide Area Telephone Service) (definition), 3.3.320                     Diagrams, 7.4.8, Annex F
                                                                              Fire alarm control unit to emergency control function relay or
L Wavelength, B.5.1.2
 N Definition, 3.3.321, A.3.3.321                                                             other appliance, 21.2.6
                                                                              Household signaling systems, 29.11.5
 Wide area mass notification system, see One-way emergency
                                                                                                                     -Z-
  O communications systems
                                                                          Zones
 Wide-area signaling, 18.4.10, 18.5.6                                         Definition, 3.3.328
      Definition, 3.3.323                                                     Notification, 10.7.3(1), 18.4.2.4, 18.4.3.3, 23.8.6.1.1, 23.8.6.1.3,
                                                                                              23.8.6.3, 23.8.6.4.1, 23.8.6.4.2, 23.10.2, 24.4.8.2,
E Wired IP transmissions, A.26.6.3                                                            24.4.8.5, 24.5.2.8, 24.5.3.3, 24.5.12.10, A.18.4.2.4,
S Wired network, 27.5.4                                                                       A.23.8.6.3.3, A.24.3.5.2
                                                                                   Definition, 3.3.328.1
      Definition, 3.3.177.1                                                        High power loudspeaker array, 24.6.5.1, 24.6.8, A.24.6.5.1(B)
                                                                                   Occupant evacuation elevator, 21.6.2.6.4, A.21.6.2.6.4
 U Public fire alarm reporting system, 27.4.1.1, 27.4.2, Table                Signaling, 23.8.2.8, 23.10.2, 24.4.1.2, 24.4.5.6, 24.4.5.7,
                      26.6.3.2.2.2, 27.6.5, 27.7, A.27.7.1.6.2, A.27.7.3                      24.4.8.6.1, 24.4.9, A.23.10.2, A.24.4.8.6.1, A.24.4.9.1
 Wireless control units (definition), 3.3.63.4; see also Radio alarm               Definition, 3.3.328.2, A.3.3.328.2
                                                                              Visible zone indication, 10.18.1, 10.18.2
  L system (RAS)
A Wireless devices

      Household signaling systems, 29.10.8, A.29.10.8.2.1,

{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U A.29.10.8.2.4
  8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Low-power radio transmitters, see Low-power radio transmitters
 ID Nonsupervised wireless interconnected alarms, 29.10.8.2,

FOR INDIV A.29.10.8.2.1

2019 Edition
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

Sequence of Events for the Standards                                      Committee Membership
         Development Process                                                 Classifications1,2,3,4

Once the current edition is published, a Standard is opened for           The following classifications apply to Committee members
Public Input.                                                             and represent their principal interest in the activity of the
                                                                          Committee.
Step 1 ­ Input Stage

· Input accepted from the public or other committees for 1. M Manufacturer: A representative of a maker or mar-

consideration to develop the First Draft                                  keter of a product, assembly, or system, or portion

· Technical Committee holds First Draft Meeting to revise                 thereof, that is affected by the standard.

Standard (23 weeks); Technical Committee(s) with Cor- 2. U User: A representative of an entity that is subject to

relating Committee (10 weeks)                                             the provisions of the standard or that voluntarily

· Technical Committee ballots on First Draft (12 weeks);                  uses the standard.

Technical Committee(s) with Correlating Committee                         3. IM Installer/Maintainer: A representative of an entity that

     (11 weeks)                                                                   is in the business of installing or maintaining a prod-
   · Correlating Committee First Draft Meeting (9 weeks)                          uct, assembly, or system affected by the standard.
   · Correlating Committee ballots on First Draft (5 weeks)               4. L Labor: A labor representative or employee concerned
                                                                                  with safety in the workplace.
Y · First Draft Report posted on the document information                 5. RT Applied Research/Testing Laboratory: A representative
     page                                                                         of an independent testing laboratory or indepen-
                                                                                  dent applied research organization that promulgates
L Step 2 ­ Comment Stage                                                          and/or enforces standards.
N · Public Comments accepted on First Draft (10 weeks) fol-               6. E Enforcing Authority: A representative of an agency or
                                                                                  an organization that promulgates and/or enforces
     lowing posting of First Draft Report                                         standards.
                                                                          7. I Insurance: A representative of an insurance company,
O · If Standard does not receive Public Comments and the                          broker, agent, bureau, or inspection agency.
                                                                          8. C Consumer: A person who is or represents the ultimate
     Technical Committee chooses not to hold a Second Draft                       purchaser of a product, system, or service affected by
                                                                                  the standard, but who is not included in (2).
 E meeting, the Standard becomes a Consent Standard and                   9. SE Special Expert: A person not representing (1) through
                                                                                  (8) and who has special expertise in the scope of the
     is sent directly to the Standards Council for issuance (see                  standard or portion thereof.

 S Step 4) or                                                             NOTE 1: "Standard" connotes code, standard, recom-
                                                                          mended practice, or guide.
   · Technical Committee holds Second Draft Meeting
                                                                          NOTE 2: A representative includes an employee.
 U (21 weeks); Technical Committee(s) with Correlating
                                                                          NOTE 3: While these classifications will be used by the
     Committee (7 weeks)                                                  Standards Council to achieve a balance for Technical Com-
                                                                          mittees, the Standards Council may determine that new
L · Technical Committee ballots on Second Draft (11 weeks);               classifications of member or unique interests need repre-
     Technical Committee(s) with Correlating Committee                    sentation in order to foster the best possible Committee
 A (10 weeks)                                                             deliberations on any project. In this connection, the Stan-
                                                                          dards Council may make such appointments as it deems
{C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U · Correlating Committee Second Draft Meeting (9 weeks)appropriate in the public interest, such as the classification
                                                                          of "Utilities" in the National Electrical Code Committee.
 8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} · Correlating Committee ballots on Second Draft
                                                                          NOTE 4: Representatives of subsidiaries of any group are
 ID (8 weeks)                                                             generally considered to have the same classification as the
                                                                          parent organization.
   · Second Draft Report posted on the document informa-
     tion page

IV Step 3 ­ NFPA Technical Meeting

   · Notice of Intent to Make a Motion (NITMAM) accepted

 D (5 weeks) following the posting of Second Draft Report
IN · NITMAMs are reviewed and valid motions are certified

     by the Motions Committee for presentation at the NFPA
     Technical Meeting
   · NFPA membership meets each June at the NFPA Techni-

 R cal Meeting to act on Standards with "Certified Amend-

     ing Motions" (certified NITMAMs)

O· Committee(s) vote on any successful amendments to the
FTechnical Committee Reports made by the NFPA mem-
bership at the NFPA Technical Meeting

Step 4 ­ Council Appeals and Issuance of Standard

· Notification of intent to file an appeal to the Standards
  Council on Technical Meeting action must be filed within
  20 days of the NFPA Technical Meeting

· Standards Council decides, based on all evidence,
  whether to issue the standard or to take other action

Notes:

1. Time periods are approximate; refer to published sched-
   ules for actual dates.

2. Annual revision cycle documents with certified amend-
   ing motions take approximately 101 weeks to complete.

3. Fall revision cycle documents receiving certified amend-
   ing motions take approximately 141 weeks to complete.

                                                                 6/16-A
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                        Submitting Public Input / Public Comment Through the Online Submission System

                   Soon after the current edition is published, a Standard is open for Public Input.
                   Before accessing the Online Submission System, you must first sign in at www.nfpa.org. Note: You will be asked to
                   sign-in or create a free online account with NFPA before using this system:

                      a. Click on Sign In at the upper right side of the page.
                      b. Under the Codes and Standards heading, click on the "List of NFPA Codes & Standards," and then select

                           your document from the list or use one of the search features.
                      OR
                      a. Go directly to your specific document information page by typing the convenient shortcut link of

                           www.nfpa.org/document# (Example: NFPA 921 would be www.nfpa.org/921). Sign in at the upper right

     Y side of the page.
   L To begin your Public Input, select the link "The next edition of this standard is now open for Public Input"
   N located on the About tab, Current & Prior Editions tab, and the Next Edition tab. Alternatively, the Next Edition

                   tab includes a link to Submit Public Input online.

   O At this point, the NFPA Standards Development Site will open showing details for the document you have
   E selected. This "Document Home" page site includes an explanatory introduction, information on the current
   S document phase and closing date, a left-hand navigation panel that includes useful links, a document Table of

                   Contents, and icons at the top you can click for Help when using the site. The Help icons and navigation panel

   U will be visible except when you are actually in the process of creating a Public Input.
   L Once the First Draft Report becomes available there is a Public Comment period during which anyone may
   A submit a Public Comment on the First Draft. Any objections or further related changes to the content of the First

                   Draft must be submitted at the Comment stage.

  {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} To submit a Public Comment you may access the online submission system utilizing the same steps as previously
   ID explained for the submission of Public Input.
   IV For further information on submitting public input and public comments, go to: http://www.nfpa.org/

                   publicinput.

   D Other Resources Available on the Document Information Pages
   IN About tab: View general document and subject-related information.
   R Current & Prior Editions tab: Research current and previous edition information on a Standard.
  FONext Edition tab: Follow the committee's progress in the processing of a Standard in its next revision cycle.

                   Technical Committee tab: View current committee member rosters or apply to a committee.
                   Technical Questions tab: For members and Public Sector Officials/AHJs to submit questions about codes and
                   standards to NFPA staff. Our Technical Questions Service provides a convenient way to receive timely and consis-
                   tent technical assistance when you need to know more about NFPA codes and standards relevant to your work.
                   Responses are provided by NFPA staff on an informal basis.
                   Products & Training tab: List of NFPA's publications and training available for purchase.

                                                                                           6/16-B
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

                                                     Information on the NFPA Standards Development Process

                     I. Applicable Regulations. The primary rules governing the processing of NFPA standards (codes, standards,
                     recommended practices, and guides) are the NFPA Regulations Governing the Development of NFPA Standards (Regs). Other
                     applicable rules include NFPA Bylaws, NFPA Technical Meeting Convention Rules, NFPA Guide for the Conduct of Participants in
                     the NFPA Standards Development Process, and the NFPA Regulations Governing Petitions to the Board of Directors from Decisions of
                     the Standards Council. Most of these rules and regulations are contained in the NFPA Standards Directory. For copies of the
                     Directory, contact Codes and Standards Administration at NFPA Headquarters; all these documents are also available on
                     the NFPA website at "www.nfpa.org."

                     The following is general information on the NFPA process. All participants, however, should refer to the actual rules and
                     regulations for a full understanding of this process and for the criteria that govern participation.

                     II. Technical Committee Report. The Technical Committee Report is defined as "the Report of the responsible
                     Committee(s), in accordance with the Regulations, in preparation of a new or revised NFPA Standard." The Technical
                     Committee Report is in two parts and consists of the First Draft Report and the Second Draft Report. (See Regs at
                     Section 1.4.)

                     III. Step 1: First Draft Report. The First Draft Report is defined as "Part one of the Technical Committee Report, which
                     documents the Input Stage." The First Draft Report consists of the First Draft, Public Input, Committee Input, Committee

   Y and Correlating Committee Statements, Correlating Notes, and Ballot Statements. (See Regs at 4.2.5.2 and Section 4.3.)
   L Any objection to an action in the First Draft Report must be raised through the filing of an appropriate Comment for

                     consideration in the Second Draft Report or the objection will be considered resolved. [See Regs at 4.3.1(b).]

   N IV. Step 2: Second Draft Report. The Second Draft Report is defined as "Part two of the Technical Committee Report,

                     which documents the Comment Stage." The Second Draft Report consists of the Second Draft, Public Comments with

   O corresponding Committee Actions and Committee Statements, Correlating Notes and their respective Committee

                     Statements, Committee Comments, Correlating Revisions, and Ballot Statements. (See Regs at 4.2.5.2 and Section 4.4.)

   E The First Draft Report and the Second Draft Report together constitute the Technical Committee Report. Any outstanding

                     objection following the Second Draft Report must be raised through an appropriate Amending Motion at

   S the NFPA Technical Meeting or the objection will be considered resolved. [See Regs at 4.4.1(b).]

                     V. Step 3a: Action at NFPA Technical Meeting. Following the publication of the Second Draft Report, there is a period

   U during which those wishing to make proper Amending Motions on the Technical Committee Reports must signal their

                     intention by submitting a Notice of Intent to Make a Motion (NITMAM). (See Regs at 4.5.2.) Standards that receive

   L notice of proper Amending Motions (Certified Amending Motions) will be presented for action at the annual June NFPA

                     Technical Meeting. At the meeting, the NFPA membership can consider and act on these Certified Amending Motions as

   A well as Follow-up Amending Motions, that is, motions that become necessary as a result of a previous successful Amending

                     Motion. (See 4.5.3.2 through 4.5.3.6 and Table 1, Columns 1-3 of Regs for a summary of the available Amending Motions

  {C56A4DC7-64F7-4C8U and who may make them.) Any outstanding objection following action at an NFPA Technical Meeting (and any further
       8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} Technical Committee consideration following successful Amending Motions, see Regs at 4.5.3.7 through 4.6.5.3) must be
   ID raised through an appeal to the Standards Council or it will be considered to be resolved.
                     VI. Step 3b: Documents Forwarded Directly to the Council. Where no NITMAM is received and certified in accordance
   IV with the Technical Meeting Convention Rules, the standard is forwarded directly to the Standards Council for action on
                     issuance. Objections are deemed to be resolved for these documents. (See Regs at 4.5.2.5.)
   D VII. Step 4a: Council Appeals. Anyone can appeal to the Standards Council concerning procedural or substantive matters
                     related to the development, content, or issuance of any document of the NFPA or on matters within the purview of the
   IN authority of the Council, as established by the Bylaws and as determined by the Board of Directors. Such appeals must be in
                     written form and filed with the Secretary of the Standards Council (see Regs at Section 1.6). Time constraints for filing an
                     appeal must be in accordance with 1.6.2 of the Regs. Objections are deemed to be resolved if not pursued at this level.
   R VIII. Step 4b: Document Issuance. The Standards Council is the issuer of all documents (see Article 8 of Bylaws). The
                     Council acts on the issuance of a document presented for action at an NFPA Technical Meeting within 75 days from the
   Odate of the recommendation from the NFPA Technical Meeting, unless this period is extended by the Council (see Regs at

  F4.7.2). For documents forwarded directly to the Standards Council, the Council acts on the issuance of the document at its
                     next scheduled meeting, or at such other meeting as the Council may determine (see Regs at 4.5.2.5 and 4.7.4).

                     IX. Petitions to the Board of Directors. The Standards Council has been delegated the responsibility for the
                     administration of the codes and standards development process and the issuance of documents. However, where
                     extraordinary circumstances requiring the intervention of the Board of Directors exist, the Board of Directors may take
                     any action necessary to fulfill its obligations to preserve the integrity of the codes and standards development process
                     and to protect the interests of the NFPA. The rules for petitioning the Board of Directors can be found in the Regulations
                     Governing Petitions to the Board of Directors from Decisions of the Standards Council and in Section 1.7 of the Regs.

                     X. For More Information. The program for the NFPA Technical Meeting (as well as the NFPA website as information
                     becomes available) should be consulted for the date on which each report scheduled for consideration at the meeting will
                     be presented. To view the First Draft Report and Second Draft Report as well as information on NFPA rules and for up-to-
                     date information on schedules and deadlines for processing NFPA documents, check the NFPA website (www.nfpa.org/
                     docinfo) or contact NFPA Codes & Standards Administration at (617) 984-7246.

                                                                                           6/16-C
Copyright 2019 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA®). Licensed by agreement to Carl Weaver FOR INDIVIDUAL USE ONLY and downloaded on 11/05/2019. No reproduction or transmission in any form permitted without
                                                                 written permission of NFPA®. For inquiries or access for multiple users, or to report unauthorized use, contact licensing@nfpa.org.

          XchangeTM

                                          The place to connect online with your fire, electrical, and life safety peers

                        Have a question about the code or standard you're reading now?

              Y NFPA XchangeTM can help!
    L NFPA XchangeTM brings together over 30,000 professionals worldwide, asking and answering each
     N other's questions, sharing ideas, and discussing the issues impacting your industry today.

            SE O NFPA XchangeTM is free to join and offers:
      U Ü A robust collection of previously asked and answered questions to search
      L Ü Access to thousands of peers for problem-solving and on-the-job advice
      A Ü NFPA blogs, white papers, and webinars in one convenient place
  {C56A4DC7-64F7-I4DC8U8-B368-41DE5BD47BC8} NFPA members also enjoy XchangeTM Members Only, the online space for technical questions*
     IV answered by NFPA staff, exclusive NFPA live events, and premier access to curated content.

        INDJoin NFPA XchangeTM TODAY!
  FOR www.nfpa.org/xchange

                                    Xchange Today. Safer Tomorrow.

                          *For the full terms of use, please visit nfpa.org/standard_items/terms-of-use#xchange. NFPA® is a registered trademark of
                          the National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02169.
